%META:TOPICINFO{author="PeterBrewer" date="1177610137" format="1.1" version="1.2"}%
%META:TOPICPARENT{name="GeoAppInter"}%
---+ Meeting held on IRC, 19 April 2007

Attendees Present:

   * Tim Sutton
   * Peter Brewer
   * Aimee Stewart
   * Dave Vieglas

---++  Meeting logs:

Logs from the IRC (unedited and including inane banter etc) are [[http://linfiniti.com/irclogs/%23biogeosdi.19-04-2007.log][available here]]. The minutes below provide a summary of these logs.

---++ Agenda

   1 Getting the php version finished
   1 Getting the flash version finished
   1 Division of labour for the report writing
   1 Finding a permanent home for the demo
   1 Write another proposal for a follow up workshop

---++ Getting the php version finished

   1 Tim to make a intro front page with short description leading to each frontend
   1 To to validate OM webservice is running as expected
   1 Dave to look at map display in fiinal part of php frontend
   1 Pete to finalise CoL WS client

---++ Getting the flash version finished
   1 Javier was absent from the meeting but Aimee expressed interest in learning flash so she will start looking at the flash frontend in the interim to try to resolve remaining issues

---++ Division of labour for the report writing

The [[http://biogeosdi.ecoforge.net/svn/biogeosdi/trunk/doc/report/BioGeoSDIreport.txt][report]] draft is available via svn. We divided the work for the report as follows:

   * Peter Brewer - issues relating to Spice / Catalogue of Life
   * Tim Sutton - issues with OMWS
   * Others to chip in where they can
   * Tim proposed setting a 5 page limit to the report so we can keep it terse and easily digestible (open to comment from Lee etc).
   * We set a deadline of next thursday (26 April) to complete initial round of edits to the report. 
   * We can all just edit the document in svn and resolve conflicts using diff.
   * Please manually add line breaks in the txt2tags document file so it can easily be diffed

---++ Finding a permanent home for the demo

   1 Tim has checked whether CRIA would be willing to host the site more permanently at CRIA. It may be possible but we need to resolve issues of hosting duration (how long a commitment must be made by CRIA) and server capacity.
   1 Javi was investigating getting funding for a small server to host the site.
   1 Tim to make a permanent dd image of the disk



---++ Write another proposal for a follow up workshop
   1 This item was postponed to a future meeting

---++ Follow up meeting

A follow up meeting to discuss progress on items listed above will be held on Thurs 26 April, 2007 at the following times:
   * New Zealand : 6am
   * Brazil : 3pm
   * Chicago : 1pm
   * UK: 7pm
   * Belgium / Spain: 8pm


-- Main.TimSutton - 19 Apr 2007