head	1.5;
access;
symbols;
locks; strict;
comment	@# @;


1.5
date	2007.02.28.09.59.54;	author PeterBrewer;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.4;

1.4
date	2006.12.06.09.39.41;	author PeterBrewer;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.3;

1.3
date	2006.12.06.09.17.20;	author PatriciaMergen;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.2;

1.2
date	2006.12.06.00.51.45;	author TimSutton;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.1;

1.1
date	2006.12.05.23.29.29;	author TimSutton;	state Exp;
branches;
next	;


desc
@none
@


1.5
log
@none
@
text
@%META:TOPICINFO{author="PeterBrewer" date="1172656794" format="1.1" reprev="1.5" version="1.5"}%
%META:TOPICPARENT{name="GeoAppInter"}%
---+ Meeting held on IRC, 05 Dec 2006

Attendees Present:

   * Tim Sutton
   * Renato de Giovanni
   * Peter Brewer
   * Aimee Stewart
   * Dave Vieglas
   * Dave Neufeld
   * Javier de la Torre

Meeting logs:

Logs from the IRC (unedited and including inane banter etc) are [[http://linfiniti.com/irclogs/%23biogeosdi.05-12-2006.log][available here]]. The minutes below provide a summary of these logs.

---++ Agenda

   1 Congrats everybody for the accepted proposal!
   1 Lees comments about the proposal
   1 Where and when is the meeting finally going to happen?
   1 Should we have other possible attendees
   1 Deviations from the proposal?
   1 Pre Workshop Preparation
   1 Move to new mailing list
   1 Areas where additional funding may be needed




---++ Congratulations

Mutual thanks and back patting were exchanged for the successful application for TIP funding for a pilot implementation of an interoperability demonstrator.

---++ Notes on feedback from Lee Belbin

   * There is a possibility of applying for further funding to support our proposal if needed, but we should identify any such need as soon as possible
   * We should carry out this project with the idea of presenting our work to the OGC (OGC-TDWG)
   * We should keep in mind TAG / LSID best practices
   * Two other projects that relate to the SubStandards proposal got rejected (Spatial Data Library and High Performance openModeller). There was some discussion about the possibility of pursuing these goals independently of TIP funding (at a slower pace though). 

---++ When and where is the meeting going to happen?

   * A mid march meeting at CRIA, Campinas, Brazil does not work so well for CRIA
   * Javier noted that the OGC meeting is April 19th so ideally the workshop should be held before then - but that it is not critical

Preferred dates:

   * Tim - April
   * Aimee - April
   * Pete - April
   * Dave V - after March 10
   * Javier - March or first week of April
   * Dave N - Early April
   * Renato - Early April
   * Patricia - not present at the meeting (sorry was at another meeting, begin April is fine for us)

The first week of April was finally proposed subject to final aproval from Vanderlei (director of CRIA)

---++ Additions to the attendee list

Pros and cons of additional attendees were discussed. However the lack of space at CRIA and a desire to keep things really simple was expressed. It was resolved to leave extending the attendees list for now - keeping the possibility open for additional invitees if we identify obvious areas where we are missing expertise.

---++ Deviations from the proposal?

Possible deviations were discussed but at present we do not envisage any deviations.

---++ Preparation for workshop

Some discussion took place regarding preparations for the workshop. The following items were highlighted:

   * We need to thoroughly flesh out the simple use case scenario
   * We should create some screen mockups of the desired user interfaces
   * We should identify exactly which standard services and protocols are to be used and where attention will be needed regarding 'glue' code between protocols
   * We should identify specific roles for workshop attendees
   * It was briefly discussed to use python as the main programming language for our prototype development


---++ Move to new mailing list

It was agreed to move to the new TDWG mailing list

---++ Possible areas where additional funding may be needed
   * Possibly a subgroup meeting to coordinate deployment of openModeller clusters
   * Possibility of getting funding to work on SDL for a week before the workshop



-- Main.TimSutton - 05 Dec 2006
@


1.4
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="PeterBrewer" date="1165397981" format="1.1" version="1.4"}%
d23 1
a23 1
   1 Where and where is the meeting finally going to happen?
d53 1
a53 1
   * Pete - flexible
d91 1
a91 1
-- Main.TimSutton - 05 Dec 2006@


1.3
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="PatriciaMergen" date="1165396640" format="1.1" version="1.3"}%
d39 1
a39 1
   * There is a possibility of applying for furthere funding to support our proposal if needed, but we should identify any such need as soon as possible
d64 1
a64 1
Pros and cons of additional attendees were discussed. However there lack of space at CRIA and a desire to keep things really simple. It was resolved to leave extending the attendees list for now - keeping the possibility open for additional invitees if we identify obvious areas where we are missing expertise.
@


1.2
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="TimSutton" date="1165366305" format="1.1" version="1.2"}%
d58 1
a58 1
   * Patricia - not present at the meeting
d91 1
a91 1
-- Main.TimSutton - 05 Dec 2006
@


1.1
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="TimSutton" date="1165361369" format="1.1" version="1.1"}%
d5 14
d27 1
d30 3
d70 15
d89 2
@
