head	1.37;
access;
symbols;
locks; strict;
comment	@# @;
expand	@o@;


1.37
date	2007.09.23.18.24.20;	author TimRobertsonGBIF;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.36;

1.36
date	2007.07.30.01.55.04;	author JavierTorre;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.35;

1.35
date	2007.07.13.11.21.33;	author JavierTorre;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.34;

1.34
date	2007.07.12.21.59.19;	author JavierTorre;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.33;

1.33
date	2007.07.07.18.41.03;	author JavierTorre;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.32;

1.32
date	2007.04.26.17.56.50;	author TimSutton;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.31;

1.31
date	2007.04.26.16.44.33;	author PeterBrewer;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.30;

1.30
date	2007.04.19.16.44.55;	author TimSutton;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.29;

1.29
date	2007.04.02.13.03.19;	author JavierTorre;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.28;

1.28
date	2007.03.31.19.17.18;	author TimSutton;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.27;

1.27
date	2007.03.29.14.25.48;	author TimSutton;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.26;

1.26
date	2007.03.21.16.15.08;	author TimSutton;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.25;

1.25
date	2007.02.28.11.46.47;	author TimSutton;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.24;

1.24
date	2007.02.15.18.08.10;	author AimeeStewart;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.23;

1.23
date	2006.12.05.22.18.45;	author TimSutton;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.22;

1.22
date	2006.12.05.21.17.10;	author DaveVieglais;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.21;

1.21
date	2006.11.23.03.15.50;	author DaveVieglais;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.20;

1.20
date	2006.11.16.00.37.01;	author JavierTorre;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.19;

1.19
date	2006.11.15.08.29.41;	author PatriciaMergen;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.18;

1.18
date	2006.11.09.20.19.38;	author AimeeStewart;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.17;

1.17
date	2006.10.30.13.31.07;	author PeterBrewer;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.16;

1.16
date	2006.10.26.23.01.00;	author JavierTorre;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.15;

1.15
date	2006.10.26.18.48.53;	author PatriciaMergen;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.14;

1.14
date	2006.10.26.17.02.35;	author JavierTorre;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.13;

1.13
date	2006.10.25.10.01.45;	author JavierTorre;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.12;

1.12
date	2006.10.25.02.49.08;	author JavierTorre;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.11;

1.11
date	2006.10.25.02.36.58;	author TimSutton;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.10;

1.10
date	2006.10.25.00.51.36;	author JavierTorre;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.9;

1.9
date	2006.10.24.22.53.55;	author JavierTorre;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.8;

1.8
date	2006.10.24.21.09.31;	author JavierTorre;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.7;

1.7
date	2006.10.24.17.49.25;	author TimSutton;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.6;

1.6
date	2006.10.24.16.03.37;	author JavierTorre;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.5;

1.5
date	2006.10.24.15.00.34;	author JavierTorre;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.4;

1.4
date	2006.10.24.12.59.16;	author JavierTorre;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.3;

1.3
date	2006.10.24.07.20.39;	author JavierTorre;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.2;

1.2
date	2006.10.23.21.34.12;	author JavierTorre;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.1;

1.1
date	2006.10.21.20.07.41;	author JavierTorre;	state Exp;
branches;
next	;


desc
@none
@


1.37
log
@none
@
text
@%META:TOPICINFO{author="TimRobertsonGBIF" date="1190571860" format="1.1" version="1.37"}%
%META:TOPICPARENT{name="WebHome"}%
%TOC%
---++ News

   * (7/7/07) The report from the task group first workshop is already available. [[http://omtest.cria.org.br/biogeosdi/doc/report/BioGeoSDIreport.html][Final Report in html]]

---++ Introduction

The aim of this task group is the creation of an interoperability framework and possibly and infrastructure where different biodiversity geospatial applications can comunicate and produce new results.
There are a lot of biodiversity geospatial data providers, from occurrence data to migration routes, distributions, itineraries, etc. There is also several projects working on analytical tools to use this data. But all these systems do not interoperate! Every system is created as a kind of silo, and the consumption of its data or results is not done in a very efficient way. By using OGC and TDWG standards we aim at solving the interoperability problems among these services and move forward to a Biodiversity Geospatial Web where all services can be chained in a workflow where the results from one can be fed into the next and where the services or data can be easily discovered.

The task group will achieve this mainly through the creation of a software prototype where different standards are used and document at the same time the problems encountered in the process. All the code and documentation created in the process is available as Open Source.

Check out our [[InteroperabilityWorkshop1][first workshop]] to see what we have already done.

---++ People interested

The following list of people have expressed an interest in joining the group to keep informed about it or to collaborate with it. It would be nice if everybody could add some notes detailing what they are working on below their name and what their interest is this group, for example as a data or as an analysis provider. If they can include links to their actual projects that will also be nice to see what they have.

| *Name* | *Email* | *Interest/Data/Project* | *DP/AN* |
| Javier de la Torre | jatorre [at] gmail.com | OGC standards, pre-analysis to modeling to check validity of data before going modeling, visualization | DP/AN |
| Patricia Mergen | patricia.mergen [at] africamuseum.be | Itineraries, visualization tools | DP/AN |
| Bart Meganck | bart.meganck [at] africamuseum.be | Itineraries, visualization tools | AN |
| Tim Levatich | TPL10 [at] cornell.edu | Cornell Lab of Ornithology, Very big database willing to expose their data as OGC services | DP |
| Kevin Webb | kfw4 [at] cornell.edu | "" | DP |
| Silvio Olivieri | silvio.olivieri [at] iucn.org | IUCN World Conservation Union. World Protected Areas | DP |
| Aimee Stewart | astewart [at] ku.edu | LifeMapper, distributed Modeling | AN |
| Reed Beaman | reed.beaman [at] yale.edu | Convenor of the Geospatial TDWG subgroup | ? |
| Dave Vieglais | vieglais [at] ku.edu | Lifemapper, distributed computing, visualization | AN |
| Tim Sutton | tim [at] linfiniti.com | [[http://openmodeller.sf.net][openModeller]], distributed analysis, access to supercomputer centres | AN |
| Renato de Giovanni | renato [at] cria.org.br | openModeller, distributed analysis, access to supercomputer centres | AN |
| Markus Neteler | ? | environmental risk assessment, time series satellite data analysis, developer and expert in GRASS | AN |
| Dave Neufeld | david.neufeld [at] colorado.edu | GBIF MAPA, online biodiversity analysis | AN |
| Jerry Cooper | cooperj [at] landcareresearch.co.nz | GBIF New Zealand | ? |
| Wouter Addink | wouter [at] eti.uva.nl| Time based maps, viaulization tools | ? |
| Flip Dibner | pcd [at] ecosystem.com | ? | ? |
| Boyce Tankersley | btankers [at] chicagobotanic.org | ? | ? |
| Peter Brewer | p.w.brewer [at] rdg.ac.uk | Species 2000 Systems Manager | DP/AN |
| Tim Robertson | trobertson [at] gbif.orf | GBIF Portal including GIS services | DP/AN |

---++ A name for the task group

We need a name for the task group, and I will say a logo and a moto. Here are the ideas people had expressed until now:

   * *SubStandards task group* (Dave Vieglais): The idea of name (in my own understanding, Javier, is that this is not about discussing standards but rather using them)
   * *Geospatial Application and Interoperability Task Group* (Patricia Mergen): The idea is to work on Geospatial application and to test interoperability among them and also with TDWG standards and applications from the other subgroups. I am in favor of a name like *BioGeo Interoperability Task Group*. 
   * *The BioGeo Interoperability Task Group* (Tim Sutton): A group whose task is to promote interoperability among Biodiversity Geospatial Applications to enable a future BioGeo Spatial Data Infrastructure (BioGeoSDI)

---++ Charter

We need a charter to be able to be an official TDWG task group. Patricia Mergen started creating one but we need extensive editing so that it represents the interest and goals of the different people that we want to participate. My idea (Javier de la Torre) is to have this ready in less than 2 weeks.
The editing of the charter is done in its own page, please follow the next link:

GeoAppInterCharter


---+++ WorkShops

   * InteroperabilityWorkshop1

---+++ Use Case Scenarios

Use case scenarios are used to define the priorities when creating prototype software as part of the interoperability workshops. Ideally the use case scenarios should be incremental to allow achieving them incrementally.

---++++ Simple-short term use case scenarios

   1. NicheAnalysisProcess: Carrying out an fundamental ecological niche analysis
   2. Providing ItineraryServices as visualisation tool for data quality checking
   3. Serving DiGIR-style data over OGC standards


---++++ Complex-Long term use case scenarios

To have complex use cases we need to have a vision towards a Biodiversity Geospatial Data Infrastructure. This is a network of services with different components that will be reuse to satisfy several use cases. Go to the BioGeoSDIVision page to see this infraestructure.

Following find a list of complex Processes that involes several components.

   1. ComplexNicheAnalysisProcess: Using distributed OGC services be able to do the BEST model possible by using as much data as possible, with the better quality, with the better environmental layers, in different softwares, in different algorithms, using supercomputer centres, etc...

---++ Available Presentations and outreach

   * [[%ATTACHURL%/BiogeoSDIworkshopPresentationAtOGC.pdf][BiogeoSDIworkshopPresentationAtOGC.pdf]]: Presentation of the BioGeoSDI Workshop at the 61st OGC Technical Committee in Paris (2007-07-11)
   * [[http://www.slideshare.net/simon/implications-of-openid-google-tech-talk/]]



---++ Community Resources

   * You can subscribe to our mailinglist (biogeosdi@@lists.tdwg.org) at http://lists.tdwg.org/mailman/listinfo/biogeosdi
   * You can join us on *IRC* at #biogeosdi on irc.freenode.net
   * You can view the IRC logs [[http://linfiniti.com/irclogs/?C=M;O=D][online]].
   * Subversion repository is located at https://biogeosdi.ecoforge.net/svn  (Use your TDWG credentials).  If you have problems checking in, contact Dave V.
   * [[%ATTACHURL%/BiogeoSDIworkshopPresentationAtOGC.pdf][BiogeoSDIworkshopPresentationAtOGC.pdf]]: Presentation of the BioGeoSDI workshop at the OGC TC in Paris

%META:FILEATTACHMENT{name="BiogeoSDIworkshopPresentationAtOGC.pdf" attachment="BiogeoSDIworkshopPresentationAtOGC.pdf" attr="" comment="Presentation of the BioGeoSDI workshop at the OGC TC in Paris" date="1184325620" path="BiogeoSDIworkshopPresentationAtOGC.pdf" size="7959399" stream="BiogeoSDIworkshopPresentationAtOGC.pdf" user="Main.JavierTorre" version="1"}%
@


1.36
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="JavierTorre" date="1185760504" format="1.1" version="1.36"}%
d40 1
d70 1
@


1.35
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="JavierTorre" date="1184325693" format="1.1" reprev="1.35" version="1.35"}%
d82 1
@


1.34
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="JavierTorre" date="1184277559" format="1.1" version="1.34"}%
d81 2
a82 1
   * Presentation of the BioGeoSDI Workshop at the 61st OGC Technical Committee in Paris (2007-07-11)
d90 4
a93 1
   * Subversion repository is located at https://biogeosdi.ecoforge.net/svn  (Use your TDWG credentials).  If you have problems checking in, contact Dave V.@


1.33
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="JavierTorre" date="1183833663" format="1.1" reprev="1.33" version="1.33"}%
d79 5
d89 1
a89 1
   * Subversion repository is located at https://biogeosdi.ecoforge.net/svn  (Use your TDWG credentials).  If you have problems checking in, contact Dave V.
@


1.32
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="TimSutton" date="1177610210" format="1.1" reprev="1.32" version="1.32"}%
d6 1
a6 2
   * (25/10/06) We have new communication tools for the group, see you in the IRC!
   * (23/10/06) We have created a temporary mailing list. If you have not recieved the invitation email you can subscribe by sending an email to tdwg_geoplayground-subscribe@@yahoogroups.com 
d11 5
a15 1
There are a lot of biodiversity geospatial data providers, from occurrence data to migration routes, distributions, itineraries, etc. There is also several projects working on analytical tools to use this data. But all these systems do not interoperate! Every system is created as a kind of silo, and the consumption of its data or results is not done in a very efficient way. By using OGC standards we aim at solving the interoperability problems among these services and move forward to a Biodiversity Geospatial Web where all services can be chained in a workflow where the results from one can be fed into the next and where the services or data can be easily discovered. We aim to use existing OGC and TDWG standards so that we can benefit from existing software.
d63 1
a63 1
I discussed with Tim about the creation of two different kind of scenarios, the realistic and the ones that we dream. We prefer to go step by step having results fast by doing some integration and little test while heading for a general vision of integration among services. So please add yours to the one you think is fits better:
d81 1
a81 1
   * You can subscribe to our  (temporary)  mailinglist by sending an email to tdwg_geoplayground-subscribe@@yahoogroups.com 
a84 1

@


1.31
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="PeterBrewer" date="1177605873" format="1.1" version="1.31"}%
a52 1
---++ TDWG TIP Workshop
d54 1
a54 1
We have submitted a proposal for a meeting to the TDWG TIP project. The proposal can be downloaded from:
d56 1
a56 21
   * [[%ATTACHURL%/TDWG_geoInteroperability_Proposal.pdf][TDWG_geoInteroperability_Proposal.pdf]]: TDWG_geoInteroperability_Proposal.pdf

The page that was used for discussing this proposal is still available at TDWGTipProposal, but the *proposal that was finally sent is the one on PDF* (what is almost the same with some little editing).

---+++ Workshop Information

   1. WorkshopAssumptions
   2. WorkshopPlanning
   3. MockupScreenShots
   3. AccessingTheCode
   3. CodingConventions
   4. ServerPreparationStepByStep
   3. FinalProducts
   4. TravelArangements
   1. DailyMilestones

---+++ Meetings

   * BioGeoSDIMeeting05Dec2006
   * BioGeoSDIMeeting19Apr2007
   * BioGeoSDIMeeting26Apr2007
a82 2

%META:FILEATTACHMENT{name="TDWG_geoInteroperability_Proposal.pdf" attachment="TDWG_geoInteroperability_Proposal.pdf" attr="" comment="" date="1163637223" path="TDWG_geoInteroperability_Proposal.pdf" size="31572" stream="TDWG_geoInteroperability_Proposal.pdf" user="Main.JavierTorre" version="1"}%
@


1.30
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="TimSutton" date="1177001095" format="1.1" version="1.30"}%
d77 1
@


1.29
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="JavierTorre" date="1175518999" format="1.1" version="1.29"}%
d73 4
a102 3
---++ Meetings

   * BioGeoSDIMeeting05Dec2006
@


1.28
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="TimSutton" date="1175368638" format="1.1" version="1.28"}%
d71 1
@


1.27
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="TimSutton" date="1175178348" format="1.1" reprev="1.27" version="1.27"}%
d67 1
@


1.26
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="TimSutton" date="1174493708" format="1.1" version="1.26"}%
d65 3
@


1.25
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="TimSutton" date="1172663207" format="1.1" version="1.25"}%
d64 3
a66 2
   2. FinalProducts
   3. TravelArangements
@


1.24
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="AimeeStewart" date="1171562890" format="1.1" version="1.24"}%
d65 2
@


1.23
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="TimSutton" date="1165357125" format="1.1" version="1.23"}%
d53 1
a53 1
---++ TDWG TIP Proposal
d61 6
a66 1
---++ Use Case Scenarios
d70 1
a70 1
---+++ Simple-short term use case scenarios
d76 1
a76 1
---+++ Complex-Long term use case scenarios
@


1.22
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="DaveVieglais" date="1165353430" format="1.1" version="1.22"}%
d86 3
@


1.21
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="DaveVieglais" date="1164251750" format="1.1" version="1.21"}%
@


1.20
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="JavierTorre" date="1163637421" format="1.1" version="1.20"}%
d27 1
a27 1
| Dave Vieglas | vieglais [at] ku.edu | Lifemapper | AN |
d84 1
@


1.19
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="PatriciaMergen" date="1163579381" format="1.1" version="1.19"}%
d55 1
a55 2
The TDWG Infrastructure Project (TIP) has US$250,000 (total) available to projects that help advance TIP goals.  http://www.tdwg.org/homepage-news-item/article/call-for-project-proposals-tdwg-infrastructure-project-tip-round-2/
This proposal is due Nov 15.  Please edit on the following page:
d57 1
a57 1
TDWGTipProposal
d59 1
d84 3
@


1.18
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="AimeeStewart" date="1163103578" format="1.1" version="1.18"}%
d21 1
d43 1
a43 1
   * *Geospatial Application and Interoperability Task Group* (Patricia Mergen): Well, we want to work in geospatial applications and interoperability among them.
d68 1
a68 1
   2. Providing itinerary services as visualisation tool for data quality checking
@


1.17
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="PeterBrewer" date="1162215067" format="1.1" version="1.17"}%
d52 8
d82 1
a82 1
   * You can view the IRC logs [[http://linfiniti.com/irclogs/?C=M;O=D][online]].@


1.16
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="JavierTorre" date="1161903660" format="1.1" version="1.16"}%
d35 1
@


1.15
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="PatriciaMergen" date="1161888533" format="1.1" version="1.15"}%
d33 2
d73 1
a73 1
   * You can view the IRC logs [[http://linfiniti.com/irclogs/?C=M;O=D][online]].
@


1.14
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="JavierTorre" date="1161882155" format="1.1" version="1.14"}%
d56 2
d71 1
a71 1
   * You can view the IRC logs [[http://linfiniti.com/irclogs/?C=M;O=D][online]].@


1.13
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="JavierTorre" date="1161770505" format="1.1" version="1.13"}%
d51 4
d57 8
d69 1
a69 1
   * You can view the IRC logs [[http://linfiniti.com/irclogs/?C=M;O=D][online]].
@


1.12
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="JavierTorre" date="1161744548" format="1.1" version="1.12"}%
d6 1
d31 2
a32 1
| Jerry Cooper | ? | ? | ? |
a57 3

 
-- Main.JavierTorre - 21 Oct 2006@


1.11
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="TimSutton" date="1161743818" format="1.1" version="1.11"}%
d38 1
a38 2
   * *Geospatial Interoperability Play Ground* (Javier de la Torre): The idea is that the task group is a play ground for testing interoperability among geospatial services.
   * *Geospatial Processes Task Group* (Javier de la Torre): Envision the task group as a way to define geospatial processes and make them real.
d58 1
a58 1
-- Main.JavierTorre - 21 Oct 2006
@


1.10
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="JavierTorre" date="1161737496" format="1.1" version="1.10"}%
d26 2
a27 2
| Tim Sutton | tim [at] linfiniti.com | [http://openmodeller.sf.net Open Modeller], distributed analysis, access to supercomputer centres | AN |
| Renato de Giovanni | renato [at] cria.org.br | Open Modeller, distributed analysis, access to supercomputer centres | AN |
d52 1
d54 5
@


1.9
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="JavierTorre" date="1161730435" format="1.1" version="1.9"}%
d29 1
a29 1
| Dave Neufeld | ? | ? | ? |
a52 3
---++ Who needs funding for this?


@


1.8
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="JavierTorre" date="1161724171" format="1.1" version="1.8"}%
a30 2
| Dave Neufeld | ? | ? | ? |
| Dave Neufeld | ? | ? | ? |
d50 1
a50 16
1) Carrying out an fundamental ecological niche analysis

*Proposer:* Main.TimSutton

*Scenario:* Joe is a researcher interested in discovering the hypothetical distribution range of a species. He wants to be able to find species occurrence data using the GBIF portal and then pass it to openModeller. He starts by entering a species name into a web page. When he submits the page a message appears telling him that the name he has used is actually a synonym and perhaps he'd like to use the preferred name rather? He chooses yes to use the preferred name and is presented with a new page providing a list of occurrences for his species. Each occurence includes the latitude, longitude and a globally unique identifier. He can click on the globally unique identifier to find all the provenance for that occurrence. A link on the page offers the option to perform an fundamental ecological niche analysis using the points provided. He clicks this link and a new form appears asking a few questions. When he submits the request, a new page appears telling him that he will be sent an email when his job is complete. Some minutes later and email arrives in his inbox telling him his model is done! Clicking a link in the email takes him to a page that lets him visualise the resulting model in a web mapping application with the original occurrence points overlaid.

*Summary of technical requirements:* 

   * A name searching service
   * An occurrences service that takes as input one name and its synonyms. Ideally WFS but to start with maybe just a very simple XML file would do
   * The openModeller Web Service
   * A mapping service that can be used to present the results.
   * A web site that integrates the services outlined above.

*Notes:* While the above use case represents a very simple interaction, it provides a useful starting point for a minimal interaction between several components.

d56 1
a56 1
-- Main.JavierTorre - 21 Oct 2006@


1.7
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="TimSutton" date="1161712165" format="1.1" version="1.7"}%
d36 1
d38 4
d73 1
a73 1
-- Main.JavierTorre - 21 Oct 2006
@


1.6
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="JavierTorre" date="1161705817" format="1.1" version="1.6"}%
d10 2
a11 2
The aim of this task group is the creation of an interoperability framework and possibly and infraestructure where different biodiversity geospatial applications can comunicate and produce new results.
There are a lot of biodiversity geospatial data providers, from occurrence data to migration routes, distributions, itineraries, etc. There is also several projects working on analytical tools to use this data. But all these systems do not interoperate! Every systems in created as a kind of silo, and the consumption of its data or results is not done in a very efficient way. By using OGC standards we aim at solvinf the interoperability problems among these services and move forward to a Biodiversity Geospatial Web where all services can be chain in a kind of workflow where the results from one can be fed into another and where the services or data can be easily discovered. And all this using existing OGC and TDWG standards so that we can benefit from existing software.
d15 1
a15 1
The next list of people has expressed interest in joining the group to keep inform about it or to collaborate with it. It would be nice if everybody can add some lines of what he is working on below his name and what are his interest on this group, for example as a data or as an analysis provider. If they can include links to their actual projects that will also be nice to see what they have.
d26 1
a26 1
| Tim Sutton | tim [at] linfiniti.com | Open Modeller, distributed analysis, access to supercomputer centres | AN |
d45 19
a63 1
---++ Proposed work flows
d68 1
a68 1
-- Main.JavierTorre - 21 Oct 2006@


1.5
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="JavierTorre" date="1161702034" format="1.1" version="1.5"}%
@


1.4
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="JavierTorre" date="1161694756" format="1.1" version="1.4"}%
d26 7
a32 2
| Tim Sutton | tim [at] linfiniti.com | Open Modeller, distributed analysis | AN |

d50 1
a50 1
-- Main.JavierTorre - 21 Oct 2006
@


1.3
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="JavierTorre" date="1161674439" format="1.1" version="1.3"}%
d17 11
a27 2
   * Javier de la Torre
   * Patricia Mergen
d31 2
@


1.2
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="JavierTorre" date="1161639252" format="1.1" version="1.2"}%
d3 1
d24 5
@


1.1
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="JavierTorre" date="1161461261" format="1.1" version="1.1"}%
d3 1
a3 1
This needs to be filled...
d5 21
@
