head	1.3;
access;
symbols;
locks; strict;
comment	@# @;


1.3
date	2006.10.26.22.56.31;	author JavierTorre;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.2;

1.2
date	2006.10.23.15.03.27;	author AimeeStewart;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.1;

1.1
date	2006.10.20.16.46.03;	author AimeeStewart;	state Exp;
branches;
next	;


desc
@none
@


1.3
log
@none
@
text
@%META:TOPICINFO{author="JavierTorre" date="1161903391" format="1.1" version="1.3"}%
%META:TOPICPARENT{name="WebHome"}%
---+ Geospatial Interest Group (GIG)  18 Oct 2006

Standards exist already, want to talk about applicability and interoperability, not reinvent

Charter - everyone satisfied with it, Reed will do minor edits.  Exec comm approves

---++ Task Groups

---+++ Geographic Standards Task group
   * for authority standard, areas, how they relate, how you use them
   * need to revisit 
   * need for marine as well as terrestrial
   * Tasks
      * 2 main issues: data exchange vs controlled vocabulary (content)
      * OGC applicability statements
      * Domain ontology with controlled vocab, geographic taxonomy
      * 1st task is to review existing standards
         * iso standards, fips standards, create a dataset, floristic units
      * app document
      * pay someone?  there is a budget, could do proposal for meetings or contract work
   * need to put together charter and timeline, send to Exec comm
      * Chris Frazier will do
   *  TDWG, OGC MOU 
      * TDWG has associate membership in OGC,  OGC has institutional membership in TDWG
      * TDWG exec can appoint up to 3 people to interact with OGC.  Would prefer not to rotate them much.  Interested?  Talk to Reed, Walter or Lee Belbin.   
      * Some opportunity for funding.  Fill out meeting template to maintain some continuity.
      * OGC and ISO are tightly coupled - 2 sep bodies but have MOU

---+++  [[GeoAppInter][BioGeo Interoperability]] Task group
   * Javier - interoperability testbed, workflow
   * Lots of biodiversity data available, but nobody providing interoperability
   * dist maps even worse
   * OGC providing good infrastructure, but not enough (apps can communicate)
      * but not enough about naming columns, etc, only spatial part understandable 
      * other communities are doing this with OGC
   * everything implemented in diff structures, need to do in OGC way, GML
   * dist maps, specimen locations, dist modeling/ raster data, itineraries(?)
   * framework for information and analysis, services can understand info, consume, analyze
   * Create Task group for this problem
      * frame this in *Applicability Statement* - how to use these together, need cookbook
      * workflow - identify who is doing what, Javier wants to produce OGC standard models
      * look at OGC site for examples of other domains doing what we want to do in biodiversity informatics
   
---+++ Conceptual Model Task Group
Flip (GIG Talking Points - slides will be posted)
   * could be differences b/w OGC and TDWG models
   * conceptual model - potential task group, but maybe better in TAG
   * Observations and Measurements Spec (O&M Spec)
   * developed in OWS initiatives
   * feature type is an event, get a result on an observation on a thing
   * Feature of Interest (FOI)
   * need a conceptual model to talk about diff representations of same type of date (ie. darwincore + abcd)
   * conceptual model of taxonomic data -- (used to create) --> representational view of darwincore

---+++ Old Geography subgroup 
   * Should be subsumed by GIG?  Neil and Raphael (Kew?) may like to continue, but could be a task group within GIG
   * TDWG Geographic Standard - *decision:* adopt into GIG for maintenance with task group
      * who is using it?   
         * 7000 downloads in past 5 years
      * someone needs to maintain the standard, but decision needs to come from those involved or exec comm.  Or we (GIG) could take it on
      * where is the standard?  
         * Kew people will ask Neil to upload it.
      * what is the standard
         * focused on botany, 
         * paper version, but shapefiles too@


1.2
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="AimeeStewart" date="1161615807" format="1.1" version="1.2"}%
d31 1
a31 1
---+++  SubStandards Task group
d67 1
a67 1
         * paper version, but shapefiles too
@


1.1
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="AimeeStewart" date="1161362763" format="1.1" version="1.1"}%
d11 1
a11 1
---+++ Authority Geographic standard Task group
d31 2
a32 13
---+++ Conceptual Model Task Group
Flip (GIG Talking Points - slides will be posted)
   * could be differences b/w OGC and TDWG models
   * conceptual model - potential task group, but maybe better in TAG
   * Observations and Measurements Spec (O&M Spec)
   * developed in OWS initiatives
   * feature type is an event, get a result on an observation on a thing
   * Feature of Interest (FOI)
   * need a conceptual model to talk about diff representations of same type of date (ie. darwincore + abcd)
   * conceptual model of taxonomic data -- (used to create) --> representational view of darwincore

---+++  Workflow / " SubStandards " ? Task group
   * Javier - interoperability testbed
d46 12
a57 1
---++++ Old Geography subgroup 
@
