%META:TOPICINFO{author="RicardoPereira" date="1166809881" format="1.1" version="1.4"}%
%META:TOPICPARENT{name="DocsDocumentation"}%
---+ Documentation and Standards Priorities for 2007

This document gives priorities for the production of documents and some standards in 2007.

---++ Standards

|*Standard*|*Priority*|*Status*|
|Documentation Specification | Urgent | Standard has been written and Stan Blume has been appointed Review Manager. Will go out for public review early in 2007. Required for other standards to be passed|
|Process| High | Text of document has been written but needs minor additions. Review Manager not yet appointed. Will follow Documentation Specification through standards track|
|LSID Applicability Statement| High | Standard has been written, baring minor changes. Waiting on Documentation Specification and Process documents to be passed|
|TAPIR Specification| High | Standard has been written. Waiting on Documentation Specification and Process documents to be passed|
|Species 2000 SPICE Protocol| Medium | Standardization been proposed |

Additional standards that are being discussed:
   * IPNI Authors as a demonstration data standard.


---++ Documents

---+++ Support Documents and Templates
   * Convener's responsibilities (Lee)
   * Template - Interest Group charter (Roger)
   * Template - Task Group charter (Roger)
   * Template - Meeting report (Roger)
   * Template - Convener's opening presentation (Lee)
   * Template - Converner's closing presentation (Lee)
   * How to achieve consensus (Lee)
   * How to for Conveners - Typo3 (home page, news, repositories...) (Ashley)
   * How to for Conveners - OJS   (charter and standards track)  (Ashley)
   * How to for Conveners - Twiki  (Ashley)
   * How to for Conveners - GNU Mailman  (Ashley)
   * LSID Roadmap (Roger & Ricardo)
   * LSIDs for Managers (Lee)
   * LSIDs for Biologists (Rich)
   * LSID resources (Ricardo)
   * TAG Roadmap (Roger)
---+++ Discussion papers
   * A Case for LSIDs and RDF in Biodiversity Informatics (Roger)
---+++ Meeting Reports
   * GUID-1
   * GUID-2
---+++ TDWG Secretariat Ongoing Maintenance and Support
---++++ Web
   * Administration (Ricardo)
   * How to - edit content (Ashley)
   * How to - submit news (Ashley)
   * How to - setup the anual conference site (Ricardo et al)
   * What needs updating (Glossary, FAQs...) (all)
---++++ OJS
   * Instructions for authors (Anna et al)
   * Instructions for Editors (Lee)
   * Instructions for Session Chairs (links with conference volunteers)
---++++ Outreach
   * Ongoing support recommendations (Lee)
   * Strategy and workplan (Lee et al)
   * Brochure (Lee & Wouter)
   * Student policy and strategy (Lee, Bryan and Neil)
---++++ Annual Conference
   * Annual conference guidelines (Adrian et al)
   * Guidance for Session Chairs (with OJS mob)
---+++ TDWG Collaborative Infrastructure Ongoing Maintenance and Support
   * TDWG Servers Manual: inventory of services and server management guidelines (user accounts, package updates, documentation, reporting)
   * How to - work with Cip
   * How to - administer Typo3
   * How to - administer OJS
   * How to - administer Twiki
   * How to - administer GNU Mailman
---+++ TDWG Architecture Ongoing Maintenance and Support
   * TAG - annual Roadmap.
   * Roger - what other documents do we need for this to continue?
---+++ Primers, User's Guides
   * SDD
   * NCD
   * TAPiR


-- Main.RogerHyam - 18 Dec 2006