head	1.4;
access;
symbols;
locks; strict;
comment	@# @;


1.4
date	2009.02.06.04.43.05;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.3;

1.3
date	2009.02.03.11.07.05;	author PiersHiggs;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.2;

1.2
date	2009.02.02.22.51.10;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.1;

1.1
date	2009.02.02.07.44.19;	author PiersHiggs;	state Exp;
branches;
next	;


desc
@none
@


1.4
log
@none
@
text
@%META:TOPICINFO{author="LeeBelbin" date="1233895385" format="1.1" version="1.4"}%
%META:TOPICPARENT{name="WebHome"}%
---++ Sysadmin group Skype of 2008/02/02

16:00 (GMT +8) Start

   1. *Keeping Cip and Andrei informed*. Tim and Markus are in an ideal position to ensure that Cip and Andrei know what our plans are. *Action:* Tim agreed to keep them informed.
   1. *Where should we be in ~12 months?* We need to consider what integrated applications may serve our needs before we invest in updating current applications. An integrated application  would be easier to maintain but some loss of functionality could be expected. Tim suggested Open Core (http://www.openplans.org/projects/opencore/project-home).  Stan said that we must have the ability for membership payments (linking to paypal, etc). Membership/user support is currently built into typo3 by Ricardo. *Action:* Lee to investigate the options for a single, integrated system. We need to ensure that we have disaster recovery in place. Can we recreate the current system? We need to move into a maintenance mode for the current system for 2009 and be looking for a more sustainable system after the patching period.  By 2010, we need to have either solved the problems and continue with the system OR find something and be ready to move in 12 months (and get external funding to do the move).
   1. *Who does what?* We have the following apps:
      1. *TYPO3* (probably most complex). Tim agreed to handle Typo3.  Ricardo putting together what he has done in documentation.  *Action:* Tim to follow up with Ricardo about Typo3 documentation.
      1. *OJS* (unsure how much tweaking has gone on &#8211; but this is the next in importance to TYPO3 as we use it a lot - standards, proceedings and charters). We need to review OJS and the code.  No-one has taken on this role as yet.
      1. *Twiki* (fairly easy and not tweaked). Relatively simple and we have the documentation.  Handled by Lee and Piers.
      1. *Mailman* (most stand-alone application). *Action:* Already being handled by Markus.
      1. *Subversion and Ricardo&#8217;s &#8216;glue&#8217; code* (probably the hardest?) and also LSIDs. *Action:* Being handled by Kevin already, and happy to continue. Markus to help Kevin with subversion. 
      1. *Back end databases* (MySQL). Unsure if we should treat these separately. Stan needs access to the users DB to enable us to update membership and get reports out. There is a phpMyAdmin implementation under typo3 which we might be able to grant Stan access to in order to help him generate custom reports.  *Action:* Piers to follow up on getting Stan access to mySQL
   1. *Priority tasks?* The priorities from the sysadmin page http://wiki.tdwg.org/twiki/bin/view/TDWG_Systems/WebHome are (decreasing order) 15,11,12,9,10,6,8,7,4. We all need to add to the list as they arise and move them to the solved list and documented when addressed. *Action:* We manage change by documenting the Wiki and keeping each other informed of actions.

16:35 (GMT +8) Close

---++ Completed actions

*Action:* Piers to follow up on getting Stan access to mySQL - done.  Checked his Typo3 account, sent an email with details to Stan, documented in the wiki.


%META:TOPICMOVED{by="PiersHiggs" date="1233560314" from="TDWG_Systems.SysadminSkype20090121" to="TDWG_Systems.SysadminSkype20090202"}%
@


1.3
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="PiersHiggs" date="1233659225" format="1.1" version="1.3"}%
d8 1
a8 1
   1. *Where should we be in ~12 months?* We need to consider what integrated applications may serve our needs before we invest in updating current applications. An integrated application  would be easier to maintain but some loss of functionality could be expected. Tim suggested Opencores (http://www.opencores.org).  Stan said that we must have the ability for membership payments (linking to paypal, etc). Membership/user support is currently built into typo3 by Ricardo. *Action:* Lee to investigate the options for a single, integrated system. We need to ensure that we have disaster recovery in place. Can we recreate the current system? We need to move into a maintenance mode for the current system for 2009 and be looking for a more sustainable system after the patching period.  By 2010, we need to have either solved the problems and continue with the system OR find something and be ready to move in 12 months (and get external funding to do the move).
@


1.2
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="LeeBelbin" date="1233615070" format="1.1" reprev="1.2" version="1.2"}%
d3 1
a3 1
Sysadmin group Skype of 2008/02/02
d18 5
a22 1
16:35 Close
a23 1
-- Main.PiersHiggs - 02 Feb 2009
@


1.1
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="PiersHiggs" date="1233560659" format="1.1" reprev="1.1" version="1.1"}%
d7 10
a16 57
1. Cip and Andrei &#8211; we need to liaise with these guys &#8211; Tim and Markus to keep them in the loop.

Tim agreed to keep Cip in the loop.

*Action:* Tim to keep Cip in the loop

2. Where should we be in ~12 months?

Not sure where we should move &#8211; but there are some applications out there that may cover the applications that we need.  Lee wants to look at the possibilities to find an integrated single application (and then we could move to that).

Examples were provided like Opencores &#8211; http://www.opencores.org - (suggested by Tim).  Must have membership stuff done (linking to paypal, etc).  Built into typo3 by Ricardo.  Membership is very important to be able to manage.  Single sign-on was also required.

Can we recreate the current TDWG system &#8211; do we have disaster recovery capability right now?  That&#8217;s step 1.  Step 2 &#8211; can we tweak the systems in place now (e.g. membership, groups, etc).

*Action:* Lee to investigate the options for a single, integrated system.

Generally we need to move into a maintenance mode for the current system for the next 12 months (2009 calendar year), and be looking for a more sustainable system after the patching period.  So in 12 months we need to have either solved the problems and continue with the system OR find something and be ready to move in 12 months (and get external funding to do the move)

3. Clarify who does what? We have the following apps that we need to cover:

a. TYPO3 (probably most complex)

Tim agreed to handle Typo3.  Ricardo putting together what he has done in documentation.  First priority is to upgrade to latest Typo3 version.  Waiting on documentation from Ricardo, Tim will chase up.

*Action:* Tim to follow up with Ricardo about Typo3 documentation

b. OJS (not sure how much tweaking has gone on &#8211; but this is the next in importance to TYPO3 as we use it a lot). 

We need to review OJS and the code.  No-one has taken on this role as yet.  OJS used quite a lot; for proceedings each year, for the standards documentations, and the vetting of new group charters.

c. Twiki (fairly easy? I don&#8217;t think it has been tweaked much)

Relatively simple and we have the documentation.  Handled by Lee and Piers.

d. Mailman (fairly easy?)

Already being handled by Markus.  Standalone system, and will leave for Markus to handle.

e. Subversion and Ricardo&#8217;s &#8216;glue&#8217; code (hmm...maybe the hardest?) and also LSIDs

Being handled by Kevin already, and happy to continue.

f. The back end databases (MySQL?). I&#8217;m not sure if we should treat these separately. I know we have quite a few (users, projects, events, networks...?). Stan was wanting to get access to the users DB to enable us to get reports out on membership etc.

Reginline and some other tasks are done through this section.  Need to get Stan to have mySQL database access.  There is a phpMyAdmin implementation under typo3 which we might be able to grant Stan access to in order to help him generate custom reports.  

*Action:* Piers to follow up on getting Stan access to mySQL

Further discussion about the systems was had &#8211; Tim will need to get more information about the system from Ricardo as per the previous action item.

4. What do we need to do? What are the important issues? On the sysadmin page http://wiki.tdwg.org/twiki/bin/view/TDWG_Systems/WebHome there are a list of problems. I think the priorities are (decreasing order) 15,11,12,9,10,6,8,7,4. We (each of us) need to add them as they arise and move them to solved when done.

Due to time restrictions, we haven&#8217;t covered this apart from to introduce the group to the wiki and to see how things go.

5. So, what is our &#8216;process&#8217; for now? How do we manage change?

Document the wiki!
a19 2


@
