head	1.12;
access;
symbols;
locks; strict;
comment	@# @;
expand	@o@;


1.12
date	2007.09.11.13.36.12;	author AdrianRissone;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.11;

1.11
date	2007.09.04.06.08.07;	author AdrianRissone;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.10;

1.10
date	2007.08.30.10.12.07;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.9;

1.9
date	2007.08.28.07.21.06;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.8;

1.8
date	2007.08.22.23.08.56;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.7;

1.7
date	2007.08.10.01.21.59;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.6;

1.6
date	2007.08.10.01.18.42;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.5;

1.5
date	2007.07.18.20.43.00;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.4;

1.4
date	2007.07.18.02.11.17;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.3;

1.3
date	2007.07.09.00.08.49;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.2;

1.2
date	2007.07.06.13.25.08;	author AdrianRissone;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.1;

1.1
date	2007.07.06.12.30.49;	author RicardoPereira;	state Exp;
branches;
next	;


desc
@none
@


1.12
log
@none
@
text
@%META:TOPICINFO{author="AdrianRissone" date="1189517772" format="1.1" version="1.12"}%
%META:TOPICPARENT{name="WebHome"}%
---+!! TDWG 2007 Executive Meeting - 16 Sept 2007

%TABLE{ sort="on" tableborder="0" cellpadding="4" cellspacing="3" cellborder="0" headerbg="#617694"  headercolor="#FFD700" databg="#DCDCDC, #D8DFD5" headerrows="2" footerrows="1" }%
|*Biodiversity Information Standards (TDWG) 2007 Conference*||||
|||||
|*Sunday<br>16 Sep*|*Executive Committee meeting<br>Venue - Hotel No. 16*|*Chair*|
|0900-0930|Update on activities<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;a) Chairman's report<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;b) Editor's report<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;c) Regional reports<br><br>Nominations for TDWG Officers (2008)|Walter, Adrian, Anna, Alex, Renato, Stinger|
|0930-1100|Infrastructure Project<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;a) TIP status report (Lee) <br>&nbsp;&nbsp;b) Standards architecture (Roger & Ricardo) <br>&nbsp;&nbsp;c) TDWG Internet Infrastructure (Ricardo) <br>&nbsp;&nbsp;d) TDWG Documentation Status (Roger)<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;e) Beyond TIP (Lee & Donald) <br>&nbsp;&nbsp;f) Secretariat (Lee & Adrian)|Lee, Donald, Roger & Ricardo|
|1100-1230|Review of TDWG group structure<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;a) Responsibility for prior standards and others. Work through TAG Roadmap Appendix|Walter|
|1230-1330|Lunch||
|1330-1400|External relationships<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;a) GBIF (Donald)<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;b) OGC<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;c) IUCN/CC<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;d) ILTER<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;e) EoL and BHL<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;f) NSF proposals|Lee|
|1400-1430|TDWG 2007 & 2008|Adrian|
|1430-1440|AOB||
|1440-|Visit to the Conference Venue (SUZA)|Adrian|

|[Refreshments to be arranged ad hoc during the day]|||@


1.11
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="AdrianRissone" date="1188886087" format="1.1" version="1.11"}%
d15 2
a16 1
|1430-|Visit to the Conference Venue (SUZA)|Adrian|
@


1.10
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1188468727" format="1.1" reprev="1.10" version="1.10"}%
d9 1
a9 1
|0900-0930|Update on activities<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;a) Chairman's report<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;b) Editor's report<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;c) Regional reports|Walter, Adrian, Anna, Alex, Renato, Stinger|
d17 1
a17 1
|[Refreshments to be arranged ad hoc during the day]|||
@


1.9
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="LeeBelbin" date="1188285666" format="1.1" version="1.9"}%
d11 1
a11 1
|1100-1230|Review of TDWG group structure|Walter|
d17 1
a17 1
|[Refreshments to be arranged ad hoc during the day]|||@


1.8
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="LeeBelbin" date="1187824136" format="1.1" reprev="1.8" version="1.8"}%
d13 1
a13 1
|1330-1400|External relationships<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;a) GBIF (Donald)<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;b) OGC<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;c) Conservation Commons (Principles)<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;d) OASIS<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;e) EoL and BHL<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;f) NSF proposals|Lee|
d17 1
a17 1
|[Refreshments to be arranged ad hoc during the day]|||
@


1.7
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="LeeBelbin" date="1186708919" format="1.1" version="1.7"}%
d9 1
a9 1
|0900-0930|Update on activities<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;a) Regional reports<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;|Walter & Regional reps|
d17 1
a17 1
|[Refreshments to be arranged ad hoc during the day]|||@


1.6
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="LeeBelbin" date="1186708722" format="1.1" reprev="1.6" version="1.6"}%
d9 3
a11 3
|0930-1030|Update on activities<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;a) Regional reports<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;|Walter & Regional reps|
|1030-1130|Infrastructure Project<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;a) TIP status report (Lee) <br>&nbsp;&nbsp;b) Standards architecture (Roger & Ricardo) <br>&nbsp;&nbsp;c) TDWG Internet Infrastructure (Ricardo) <br>&nbsp;&nbsp;d) TDWG Documentation Status (Roger)<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;e) Beyond TIP (Lee & Donald) <br>&nbsp;&nbsp;f) Secretariat (Lee & Adrian)|Lee, Donald, Roger & Ricardo|
|1130-1230|Review of TDWG group structure|Walter|
d15 1
a15 1
|1500-|Visit to the Conference Venue (SUZA)|Adrian|
d17 1
a17 1
|[Refreshments to be arranged ad hoc during the day]|||
@


1.5
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="LeeBelbin" date="1184791380" format="1.1" version="1.5"}%
d10 2
a11 2
|1030-1130|Infrastructure Project<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;a) TIP status report (Lee) <br>&nbsp;&nbsp;b) TDWG Internet Infrastructure (Ricardo) <br>&nbsp;&nbsp;c) TDWG Documentation Status (Roger)<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;d) Beyond TIP (Lee & Donald) <br>&nbsp;&nbsp;e) Secretariat (Lee & Adrian)|Lee, Donald, Roger & Ricardo|
|1130-1230|TDWG Standards Architecture<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;a) Status (Roger)<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;b) Development and promotion (R&R)|Roger & Ricardo|
d14 2
a15 3
|1400-1500|Review of TDWG group structure|Walter|
|1500-1530|TDWG 2007 & 2008|Adrian|
|1530-|Visit to the Conference Venue (SUZA)|Adrian|
d17 1
a17 1
|[Refreshments to be arranged ad hoc during the day]|||@


1.4
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="LeeBelbin" date="1184724677" format="1.1" reprev="1.4" version="1.4"}%
d9 1
a9 1
|0930-1030|Update on activities<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;a) Regional reports<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;b) GBIF report|Walter, Donald & Regional reps|
d13 2
a14 2
|1330-1430|External relationships<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;a) OGC<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;b) Conservation Commons (Principles)<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;c) OASIS<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;d) EoL and BHL<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;e) NSF project|Lee|
|1430-1500|Review of TDWG group structure|Walter|
d18 1
a18 1
|[Refreshments to be arranged ad hoc during the day]|||
@


1.3
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="LeeBelbin" date="1183939729" format="1.1" reprev="1.3" version="1.3"}%
d10 2
a11 2
|1030-1130|Post TIP<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;a) Post-project continuity<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;b) TDWG Environment (incl. web site)<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;c) The role of the Chair<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;d) Funding<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;1) Secretariat<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;2) TDWG Environment (incl. web site)|Lee|
|1130-1230|TDWG Standards Architecture<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;a) Development and promotion|Roger & Ricardo|
d13 1
a13 1
|1330-1430|External relationships<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;a) IUCN - endorsing the Principles of the Conservation Commons<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;b) EoL and BHL<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;c) NSF project|Lee|
d15 1
a15 1
|1500-1530|TDWG 2008|Adrian|
@


1.2
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="AdrianRissone" date="1183728308" format="1.1" reprev="1.2" version="1.2"}%
d9 1
a9 1
|0930-1030|Update on activities|Walter|
d11 1
a11 1
|1130-1230|TDWG Architecture<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;a) Promoting the Architecture and Standards|Roger|
d13 2
a14 2
|1330-1430|External relationships<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;a) IUCN - endorsing the Principles of the Conservation Commons|Lee|
|1430-1500|??||
@


1.1
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RicardoPereira" date="1183725049" format="1.1" version="1.1"}%
d6 1
a6 1
|*Biodiversity Information Standards (TDWG) 2007 Conference||||
d8 11
a18 4
|*Sunday<br>16 Sep*|*Executive Committee meeting*|*Chair*|*Venue*|
|0900-1030||||
|1030-1100||||
|xxxx-xxxx||||
@
