head	1.44;
access;
symbols;
locks; strict;
comment	@# @;


1.44
date	2009.11.25.20.52.29;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.43;

1.43
date	2009.09.10.18.34.27;	author ChrisFreeland;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.42;

1.42
date	2009.09.06.21.09.27;	author ReedBeaman;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.41;

1.41
date	2009.08.03.14.05.07;	author JamesMacklin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.40;

1.40
date	2009.07.24.19.36.39;	author ChrisFreeland;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.39;

1.39
date	2009.07.24.16.57.55;	author DavidRemsen;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.38;

1.38
date	2009.07.24.14.32.30;	author EamonnOTuama;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.37;

1.37
date	2009.07.24.12.17.46;	author EamonnOTuama;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.36;

1.36
date	2009.07.14.09.51.41;	author AdrianRissone;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.35;

1.35
date	2009.07.09.23.02.03;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.34;

1.34
date	2009.07.06.14.57.55;	author AnnaWeitzman;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.33;

1.33
date	2009.06.26.03.24.09;	author PaulFlemons;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.32;

1.32
date	2009.06.25.22.17.46;	author KevinRichards;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.31;

1.31
date	2009.06.24.12.12.03;	author NicoCellinese;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.30;

1.30
date	2009.06.24.04.01.57;	author NicoCellinese;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.29;

1.29
date	2009.06.23.22.25.44;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.28;

1.28
date	2009.06.18.14.31.25;	author AnnieSimpson;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.27;

1.27
date	2009.06.18.11.01.15;	author AdrianRissone;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.26;

1.26
date	2009.06.18.08.51.16;	author AdrianRissone;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.25;

1.25
date	2009.06.18.08.34.48;	author GregorHagedorn;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.24;

1.24
date	2009.06.18.05.28.27;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.23;

1.23
date	2009.06.17.22.53.28;	author ElizabethArnaud;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.22;

1.22
date	2009.06.14.06.43.45;	author ElizabethArnaud;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.21;

1.21
date	2009.06.04.11.57.31;	author EamonnOTuama;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.20;

1.20
date	2009.06.04.10.16.53;	author EamonnOTuama;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.19;

1.19
date	2009.06.04.07.02.12;	author AdrianRissone;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.18;

1.18
date	2009.06.03.13.34.23;	author GregorHagedorn;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.17;

1.17
date	2009.06.03.12.56.36;	author AdrianRissone;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.16;

1.16
date	2009.06.02.13.38.34;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.15;

1.15
date	2009.05.25.08.37.21;	author MaxBioItl;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.14;

1.14
date	2009.05.15.08.27.40;	author AdrianRissone;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.13;

1.13
date	2009.05.14.11.57.35;	author GailKampmeier;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.12;

1.12
date	2009.05.12.22.46.45;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.11;

1.11
date	2009.05.06.22.46.24;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.10;

1.10
date	2009.04.26.08.35.06;	author ElizabethArnaud;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.9;

1.9
date	2009.03.19.03.51.13;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.8;

1.8
date	2009.03.13.10.31.24;	author ElizabethArnaud;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.7;

1.7
date	2009.03.12.23.30.00;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.6;

1.6
date	2009.03.12.21.52.28;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.5;

1.5
date	2009.03.12.17.06.12;	author PatriciaMergen;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.4;

1.4
date	2009.03.11.20.49.06;	author ElizabethArnaud;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.3;

1.3
date	2009.03.10.00.28.21;	author JoelSachs;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.2;

1.2
date	2009.03.03.23.18.48;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.1;

1.1
date	2009.02.26.23.44.28;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	;


desc
@none
@


1.44
log
@none
@
text
@%META:TOPICINFO{author="LeeBelbin" date="1259182349" format="1.1" version="1.44"}%
%META:TOPICPARENT{name="WebHome"}%
---++TDWG 2009 
This is a workspace for open discussion of TDWG 2009 in Montpellier, France

   * TDWG2009ProgrammeCommittee
   * TDWG2009LocalOrganizingCommittee
   * TDWG2009SharedAccommodation
   * TDWG2009AbstractReviewers

   * TDWG2009eBiosphereRoadmap
   * TDWG2009AgriculturalBiodiversity
   * TDWG2009DataIntegration

---++Reports from Working Groups
*Please*: All Conveners of Working Group Sessions at TDWG09 could you email reports (MS Word/PPT) of the outcomes of the meeting using the following structure. We will be loading these reports to the TDWG web site and distributing information widely.

   1. Working session Title &#8211; conveners&#8217;names 
   1. Short Abstract of the session progress &#8211; around 15 lines 
   1. Key questions raised during the session 
   1. Suggestions/propositions/perspectives 
   1. Relations with  e-biosphere and data integration themes 
   1. Potential collaboration identified (institutes, names and topics) 
   1. Unexpected outputs 
   1. Intentions to create or join a TDWG interest or Task group? 
   1. Next steps? 


---++The Chairman's Ideas for TDWG 2009
This is a copy of the part of Donald's email post to members and friends that relates to the TDWG 2009 programme. 

"In recent years TDWG conferences have moved away from their earlier format, with significant emphasis on working group meetings, to become more of a reporting conference on the activities of TDWG-related projects. This has had some benefits, but has also in some ways weakened the organisation by reducing our focus on the core activity of developing and promoting standards. The vitality of our working groups in large measure depends on the conference providing a focus for their activity.

For this reason, TDWG 2009 will be structured differently. Monday and Friday of the conference have been reserved for plenary sessions, but for the rest of the conference we plan to run three parallel (and, I hope, intersecting) streams of activities. One of these will be on the use of biodiversity informatics to support agriculture and crop diversity. Another stream will be for TDWG to initiate activity in response to the roadmap developed at e-Biosphere 2009. The third stream is still be be selected. Each stream will include a range of activities (e.g. symposia, seminars, task group sessions, hackathons) planned to address key issues and to result in real deliverables to progress biodiversity informatics in the area.

We are establishing a Program Committee to plan the conference in detail and will keep you informed of progress. 

Donald Hobern" 

---++Working Session Topics (Tuesday 10 - Thursday 12 November)

Please add suggested topics for the Working Sessions here:

  %EDITTABLE{}%
  | *Owner* | *Title* | *Description* | *Time needed* | *Seats needed* | *Theme* |
  | Donald Hobern | Ontologies | Development of the TDWG Ontology (closed group)  | 2 sessions   |  10  | Data Integration |
  | Donald Hobern | Ontologies | Open discussion of the TDWG Ontology  | 1 session   |  50  | Data Integration |
  | Cyndy Parr | Species Profile Model |    | 1 or 2 sessions  |  30  | Data Integration |
  | Dave Roberts | EDIT Scratchpad Tutorial | Open to all, by advanced booking | 1 or 2 sessions |  20  | - |
  | Agnes Kirchhoff | EDIT workshop for programmers | CDM Library | 2 sessions | [Please update] | - |
  | Agnes Kirchhoff | EDIT workshop for users | e.g. Taxonomic Editor, specimen search, Geo-tools | 2 sessions | [Please update] | - |
  | Gregor Hagedorn | Biological Descriptions Interest Group | Identification keys, documents, platforms, infrastructure, and other topics. Open to all | 1 session |  20  | - |
  | Gregor Hagedorn | Wiki publishing workshop | Species pages, keys, ontologies. Open to all | 1 session |  15  | Data Integration |
  | Eamonn O Tuama | Agricultural biodiversity informatics: Research infrastructure | Development of a research infrastructure for agricultural biodiversity informatics | 1 session  | 30 | Agriculture |
  | Eamonn O Tuama | Darwin Core Germplasm extension | A germplasm extension for Darwin Core and its deployment in the GBIF Integrated Publishing Toolkit | 1 session  | 30 | Agriculture |
  | Vishwas Chavan | Harnessing the long tail: small biodiversity data publishersHarnessing the long tail: small biodiversity data publishers | Discuss the tools, standards and processes to create hassle free environment for small publishers | 2 session  | 30 | Data Integration |
  | Eamonn O Tuama | GBIF LSID-GUID Task Group | Outcomes of the GBIF LSID-GUID Task Group | 1 session  | 30 | Data Integration |
  | Pierre GRard/Pierre Bonnet | Visual and textual standards for taxonomic identification | using morphological characters, molecular markers, by visual approaches, Recent advances in digital image recognition | 1 working group | 30 | - |
  | Elizabeth Arnaud | Standards for plant traits (cultivated and Wild) | expanding standards to include charcterization and evaluation data,phenotypic descriptors- exemple fo SINGER, EURISCO | 1 working group | 20 | Agriculture |
  | Elizabeth Arnaud | Data integration enabling an eco system approach for  for the management of Genetic resources | integrating multilayers databases - Management of Animal, Aquatic, microorganisms and plant genetic resources | 1 session | 20 | Data Integration + Agriculture |
  | Elizabeth Arnaud | Plant Ontology and descriptors | knowledge modelling in partnership with ENVO, Plant Ontology, Trait Ontology (Cornell University0, Crop Wild relative ontology, FAO agriculture ontology and applications for Biocuration - management tools | 1 session | 15 | Agriculture |
  | Elizabeth Arnaud | Biocuration in Agricultural related databases | Standards and tools for Data quality process | 1 session | 20 | Agriculture |
  | Elizabeth Arnaud | Herbarium digitization | Sud Expert Plantes, International genebanks | 1 session | 20 | Agriculture |
  | Michel Chauvet | Interoperability of databases on the cultivated / useful plants |  | 1 session | 20 | Agriculture |
  | Maxime Thibon | Intellectual property rights on databases  | Issues and solutions (creativecommon, scienceincommon, etc) | 1 session | 20 | - |
  | Reed Beaman and Javier de la Torre | Geospatial Interest Group | Roadmap for integrating and scaling geospatial biodiversity data  | 2 sessions | 40 | Data Integration |
  | Annie Simpson | Invasive Species Interest Group | inserting/testing GISIN models in GBIF IPT | 1 working group | 15? | Data Integration |
  | Nico Cellinese | Phylogenetic Nomenclature | Regnum development (name registration database) | 1 session | ? | Data Integration |
  | Paul Flemons | Data Analysis Framework | General discussion around a framework for work flow or business process for data analyses such as ecological niche modelling and other data analyses | 1 session | 20 | - |
  | Anna Weitzman | Literature Group | continue working on standard development | 3 sessions | 10 | - |
  | Kevin Richards | Name Matching workshop | Discuss ways to achieve name matching, look at possible integration of these services | 1 session? | ? | Data Integration |
  | Vishwas Chavan | Multimedia Resources Schema | Discuss the Multimedia Resources Schema | 2 sessions | 20 | Data Integration |
  | Chris Freeland | Linked Literature | Discussion & demonstration of how nomenclators can connect into a literature resource like Biodiversity Heritage Library. | 1 session | 20 | Data Integration |
  | James Macklin | Annotations | Discuss schema/ontologies, form task group | 1 session | 20 | Data Integration |
  | Phil Cryer & Anthony Goddard | Infrastructure for storage & exchange | Discuss hardware and software systems required for global, redundant storage to facilitate data exchange & integration. | 1 session | 30 | Data Integration |




How about a "name matching" workshop.  With all the recent work in this area (EoL/Nomina/GNA, TaxaMatch, TaxonFinder, Compositae Checklist Integrator, etc, etc) it would be good to discuss the various ways to achecive name matching, look at possible integration of these services and see if some sort of consensus can be acheived.

-- Main.KevinRichards - 25 Jun 2009




-- Main.DavidRemsen - 24 Jul 2009


Kevin and others - How would you feel about expanding the scope of the Name Matching Workshop to be a more general Taxon Name Processing workshop, essentially extending the discussions and outcomes of the Nomina IV meeting.   See the project site for this at http://code.google.com/p/taxon-name-processing.   There was a lot of consensus building and integrating initiated there. 

-- Main.DavidRemsen - 24 Jul 2009
%COMMENT{}%

---++Go For It!

   1. Interesting GIS software and library evaluation link : http://cascadoss.eu/en/index.php
   1. The new *International Biocuration Society* was launched on the 16th of April: http://biocurator.org/  They are interested to make a presentation at TDWG meeting.

%COMMENT{}%

---++EDIT Scratchpad developer's workshop?

I hear from Vince Smith that Simon Rycroft is tentatively planning an EDIT Scratchpad developers workshop during TDWG.  I would really like to see this happen (as I'd like to attend ;-))--has someone from this group been in touch already? http://vsmith.info/Scratchpad-Training-2009

Gail

The EDIT Scratchpad tutorial will probably take place on Wednesday 11th. There will also be a plenary session and other working sessions.

If a Developer's Workshop is required please will someone from EDIT add it to the list of proposed Working Sessions.

-- Main.AdrianRissone - 03 Jun 2009


Do not plan the EDIT scratchpad working group in parallel to the Agricultural plenary session! Group of colleagues in the Agriculture theme expressed their interest into the scratchpads. Thanks--Elizabeth

-- Main.ElizabethArnaud - 14 Jun 2009


There will be two EDIT Scratchpad tutorial sessions. One will be organised to avoid conflict with Agricultural plenary sessions.

-- Main.AdrianRissone - 18 Jun 2009
%COMMENT{}%

---++Draft Programmes

Any draft programme posted here is a working version. The current "official" version is the one on the Conference web site.

   * [[%ATTACHURL%/TDWG2009_Program_Draft_DonaldLee_ea.xls][TDWG2009_Program_Draft_DonaldLee_ea.xls]]: TDWG2009 Program draft

%META:FILEATTACHMENT{name="TDWG_2009_Ideas.doc" attachment="TDWG_2009_Ideas.doc" attr="" comment="Submitted ideas for themes for TDWG 2009" date="1235690851" path="TDWG 2009 Ideas.doc" size="93184" stream="TDWG 2009 Ideas.doc" user="Main.LeeBelbin" version="1"}%
%META:FILEATTACHMENT{name="TDWG_ConferenceGuidelines_v5.docx" attachment="TDWG_ConferenceGuidelines_v5.docx" attr="" comment="Draft (V5) of Guidelines for TDWG Conferences" date="1235691805" path="TDWG_ConferenceGuidelines_v5.doc" size="384000" stream="TDWG_ConferenceGuidelines_v5.doc" user="Main.LeeBelbin" version="2"}%
%META:FILEATTACHMENT{name="TDWG2009_additional_ideas.doc" attachment="TDWG2009_additional_ideas.doc" attr="" comment="Additional ideas for the programme" date="1236804546" path="C:\Documents and Settings\earnaud\My Documents\TDWG\organisation 2009\TDWG2009_additional ideas.doc" size="32768" stream="C:\Documents and Settings\earnaud\My Documents\TDWG\organisation 2009\TDWG2009_additional ideas.doc" user="Main.ElizabethArnaud" version="1"}%
%META:FILEATTACHMENT{name="TDWG_2009__draft_programme.doc" attachment="TDWG_2009__draft_programme.doc" attr="" comment="Draft programme with candidate sessions" date="1236940283" path="C:\Documents and Settings\earnaud\My Documents\TDWG\organisation 2009\TDWG 2009 _draft_programme.doc" size="27648" stream="C:\Documents and Settings\earnaud\My Documents\TDWG\organisation 2009\TDWG 2009 _draft_programme.doc" user="Main.ElizabethArnaud" version="1"}%
%META:FILEATTACHMENT{name="TDWG2009_Program_Draft_DonaldLee_ea.xls" attachment="TDWG2009_Program_Draft_DonaldLee_ea.xls" attr="" comment="TDWG2009 Program draft" date="1243240640" path="TDWG2009_Program_Draft_DonaldLee_ea.xls" size="41472" stream="TDWG2009_Program_Draft_DonaldLee_ea.xls" user="Main.MaxBioItl" version="1"}%
@


1.43
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="ChrisFreeland" date="1252607667" format="1.1" version="1.43"}%
d15 14
@


1.42
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="ReedBeaman" date="1252271367" format="1.1" version="1.42"}%
d61 1
@


1.41
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="JamesMacklin" date="1249308307" format="1.1" version="1.41"}%
d52 1
a52 1
  | TBA | Geospatial Interest Group |  | 1 session ? | 50 ? | Data Integration |
@


1.40
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="ChrisFreeland" date="1248464199" format="1.1" version="1.40"}%
d60 1
@


1.39
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="DavidRemsen" date="1248454675" format="1.1" reprev="1.39" version="1.39"}%
d59 1
@


1.38
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="EamonnOTuama" date="1248445950" format="1.1" version="1.38"}%
d66 10
@


1.37
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="EamonnOTuama" date="1248437866" format="1.1" version="1.37"}%
d42 1
a42 1
  | Eamonn O Tuama | Small data publishers | Harnessing the long tail: small biodiversity data publishers | 1 session  | 30 | Data Integration |
d58 1
@


1.36
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="AdrianRissone" date="1247565101" format="1.1" version="1.36"}%
@


1.35
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="LeeBelbin" date="1247180523" format="1.1" version="1.35"}%
d56 2
a57 1
  | Anna Weitzman | Literature Group | continue working on standard development | 3 sessions | 10 | Literature |
@


1.34
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="AnnaWeitzman" date="1246892275" format="1.1" version="1.34"}%
d9 2
@


1.33
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="PaulFlemons" date="1245986649" format="1.1" version="1.33"}%
d54 1
@


1.32
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="KevinRichards" date="1245968266" format="1.1" version="1.32"}%
d53 1
@


1.31
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="NicoCellinese" date="1245845523" format="1.1" reprev="1.31" version="1.31"}%
d55 5
@


1.30
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="NicoCellinese" date="1245816117" format="1.1" version="1.30"}%
d52 1
a52 1
  | Nico Cellinese | Phylogenetic Nomenclature | RegNum development | 1 session | ? | Data Integration |
@


1.29
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="LeeBelbin" date="1245795944" format="1.1" version="1.29"}%
d52 1
@


1.28
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="AnnieSimpson" date="1245335485" format="1.1" version="1.28"}%
d13 11
@


1.27
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="AdrianRissone" date="1245322875" format="1.1" version="1.27"}%
d40 1
@


1.26
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="AdrianRissone" date="1245315076" format="1.1" reprev="1.26" version="1.26"}%
d67 5
@


1.25
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="GregorHagedorn" date="1245314088" format="1.1" reprev="1.25" version="1.25"}%
d19 1
a19 1
  | Donald Hobern | Ontologies | Development of the TDWG Ontology (closed group)  | 2 sessions   |  10  | Data Integration|
d37 1
a37 1
  | Michel Chauvet | Interoperability of databases on the cultivated / useful plants |  | 1 session | 20 |
d39 1
@


1.24
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="LeeBelbin" date="1245302907" format="1.1" version="1.24"}%
d25 2
a26 2
  | Gregor Hagedorn | Biological Descriptions Interest Group | Open to all | 1 session |  20  | - |
  | Gregor Hagedorn | Wiki publishing workshop | Species pages, keys, ontologies. Open to all, by advanced booking | 1 session |  15  | Data Integration |
d36 1
a36 1
  | Elizabeth Arnaud | Herbarium digitazation | Sud Expert Plantes, International genebanks | 1 session | 20 | Agriculture |
@


1.23
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="ElizabethArnaud" date="1245279208" format="1.1" reprev="1.23" version="1.23"}%
d18 19
a36 19
  | *Owner* | *Title* | *Description* | *Time needed* | *Seats needed* |
  | Donald Hobern | Ontologies | Development of the TDWG Ontology (closed group)  | 2 sessions   |  10  |
  | Donald Hobern | Ontologies | Open discussion of the TDWG Ontology  | 1 session   |  50  |
  | Cyndy Parr | Species Profile Model |    | 1 or 2 sessions  |  30  |
  | Dave Roberts | EDIT Scratchpad Tutorial | Open to all, by advanced booking | 1 or 2 sessions |  20  |
  | Agnes Kirchhoff | EDIT workshop for programmers | CDM Library | 2 sessions | [Please update] |
  | Agnes Kirchhoff | EDIT workshop for users | e.g. Taxonomic Editor, specimen search, Geo-tools | 2 sessions | [Please update] |
  | Gregor Hagedorn | Biological Descriptions Interest Group | Open to all | 1 session |  20  |
  | Gregor Hagedorn | Wiki publishing workshop | Species pages, keys, ontologies. Open to all, by advanced booking | 1 session |  15  |
  | Eamonn O Tuama | Agricultural biodiversity informatics: Research infrastructure | Development of a research infrastructure for agricultural biodiversity informatics | 1 session  | 30 |
  | Eamonn O Tuama | Darwin Core Germplasm extension | A germplasm extension for Darwin Core and its deployment in the GBIF Integrated Publishing Toolkit | 1 session  | 30 |
  | Eamonn O Tuama | Small data publishers | Harnessing the long tail: small biodiversity data publishers | 1 session  | 30 |
  | Eamonn O Tuama | GBIF LSID-GUID Task Group | Outcomes of the GBIF LSID-GUID Task Group | 1 session  | 30 |
  | Pierre GRard/Pierre Bonnet | Visual and textual standards for taxonomic identification | using morphological characters, molecular markers, by visual approaches, Recent advances in digital image recognition | 1 working group | 30 |
  | Elizabeth Arnaud | Standards for plant traits (cultivated and Wild) | expanding standards to include charcterization and evaluation data,phenotypic descriptors- exemple fo SINGER, EURISCO | 1 working group | 20 |
  | Elizabeth Arnaud | Data integration enabling an eco system approach for  for the management of Genetic resources | integrating multilayers databases - Management of Animal, Aquatic, microorganisms and plant genetic resources | 1 session | 20 |
  | Elizabeth Arnaud | Plant Ontology and descriptors | knowledge modelling in partnership with ENVO, Plant Ontology, Trait Ontology (Cornell University0, Crop Wild relative ontology, FAO agriculture ontology and applications for Biocuration - management tools | 1 session | 15 |
  | Elizabeth Arnaud | Biocuration in Agricultural related databases | Standards and tools for Data quality process | 1 session | 20 |
  | Elizabeth Arnaud | Herbarium digitazation | Sud Expert Plantes, International genebanks | 1 session | 20 |
d38 1
a38 1
  | Maxime Thibon | Intellectual property rights on databases  | Issues and solutions (creativecommon, scienceincommon, etc) | 1 session | 20 |
@


1.22
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="ElizabethArnaud" date="1244961825" format="1.1" reprev="1.22" version="1.22"}%
d31 8
a38 8
  | Pierre GRard/Pierre Bonnet | Visual and textual standards for taxonomic identification | using morphological characters, molecular markers, by visual approaches (including grahical standards | 1 working group | 30 |
  | Elizabeth Arnaud | Standards for crop traits | expanding standards to include charcterization and evaluation data,phenotypic descriptors | 1 working group | 20 |
  | Elizabeth Arnaud | Data integration enabling an eco system approach for Genetic resources management  | integrating multilayers databases - Management of Animal, Aquatic, microorganisms and plant genetic resources | 1 session | 20 |
  | Elizabeth Arnaud | Crop Ontology and descriptors | knowledge modelling in partnership with ENVO and Trait Ontology , Crop Wild relative ontology, FAO agriculture ontology and applications for Biocuration - management tools | 1 session | 15 |
  | Elizabeth Arnaud | Biocuration in Agricultural databases | Standards and tools for Data quality process | 1 session | 20 |
  | Elizabeth Arnaud | Crop Herbarium digitalization | Sud Expert Plantes, International genebanks | 1 session | 15 |
  | Helmut Knuepffer/Michel Chauvet | taxon-level information interoperability in agri/horticulture |  | 1 session | 20 |
  | Pierre Bonnet | Recent advances in digital image recognition |  | 1 session | 20 |
@


1.21
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="EamonnOTuama" date="1244116651" format="1.1" version="1.21"}%
d31 11
d61 5
@


1.20
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="EamonnOTuama" date="1244110613" format="1.1" version="1.20"}%
@


1.19
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="AdrianRissone" date="1244098932" format="1.1" reprev="1.19" version="1.19"}%
d27 4
@


1.18
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="GregorHagedorn" date="1244036063" format="1.1" reprev="1.18" version="1.18"}%
d23 4
a26 2
  | Gregor Hagedorn | Biological Descriptions Interest Group | Open to all | 1 session | 20 |
  | Gregor Hagedorn | Wiki publishing workshop | Species pages, keys, ontologies. Open to all, by advanced booking | 1 session | 15 |
a28 2
...
Interesting GIS software and library evaluation link : http://cascadoss.eu/en/index.php
d30 2
a31 1
The new *International Biocuration Society* was launched on the 16th of April: http://biocurator.org/  They are interested to make a presentation at TDWG meeting.
d41 1
a41 1
Yes, this is very likely to take place. We are planning a significant EDIT presence during the conference, details are being worked out now.
d43 1
a43 5
Adrian



The EDIT Scratchpad tutorial will probably take place on Wednesday 11th. If a Developer's Workshop is required please will someone from EDIT add it to the list of proposed Working Sessions.
@


1.17
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="AdrianRissone" date="1244033796" format="1.1" reprev="1.17" version="1.17"}%
d23 2
a24 1
  | [your name] | [insert topic here] |  |  |  |
@


1.16
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="LeeBelbin" date="1243949914" format="1.1" version="1.16"}%
d13 12
d31 2
d43 11
@


1.15
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="MaxBioItl" date="1243240641" format="1.1" version="1.15"}%
d9 3
@


1.14
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="AdrianRissone" date="1242376060" format="1.1" version="1.14"}%
d26 2
d32 1
@


1.13
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="GailKampmeier" date="1242302255" format="1.1" reprev="1.13" version="1.13"}%
d22 4
@


1.12
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="LeeBelbin" date="1242168405" format="1.1" version="1.12"}%
d16 6
@


1.11
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="LeeBelbin" date="1241649984" format="1.1" version="1.11"}%
a7 1
   * TDWG2009Programme
@


1.10
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="ElizabethArnaud" date="1240734906" format="1.1" version="1.10"}%
d7 1
@


1.9
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="LeeBelbin" date="1237434673" format="1.1" version="1.9"}%
d12 3
a14 1
Interesting GIS software and library evaluation link : http://cascadoss.eu/en/index.php 
@


1.8
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="ElizabethArnaud" date="1236940284" format="1.1" version="1.8"}%
d8 1
@


1.7
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="LeeBelbin" date="1236900600" format="1.1" version="1.7"}%
d16 1
@


1.6
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="LeeBelbin" date="1236894748" format="1.1" reprev="1.6" version="1.6"}%
a8 15
---+++TDWG 2009 Programme Committee

   * Annie Simpson (asimpson@@usgs.gov)
   * Patricia Mergen (patricia.mergen@@africamuseum.be)
   * Joel Sachs (jsachs@@csee.umbc.edu)
   * Elizabeth Arnaud (e.arnaud@@cgiar.org)?
   * Adrian Rissone (A.Rissone@@nhm.ac.uk)

---++Donald's Email about TDWG 2009
"In recent years TDWG conferences have moved away from their earlier format, with significant emphasis on working group meetings, to become more of a reporting conference on the activities of TDWG-related projects.  This has had some benefits, but has also in some ways weakened the organisation by reducing our focus on the core activity of developing and promoting standards.  The vitality of our working groups in large measure depends on the conference providing a focus for their activity.
 
For this reason, TDWG 2009 will be structured differently.  Monday and Friday of the conference have been reserved for plenary sessions, but for the rest of the conference we plan to run three parallel (and, I hope, intersecting) streams of activities.  One of these will be on the use of biodiversity informatics to support agriculture and crop diversity.  Another stream will be for TDWG to initiate activity in response to the roadmap developed at e-Biosphere 2009.  The third stream is still be be selected.  Each stream will include a range of activities (e.g. symposia, seminars, task group sessions, hackathons) planned to address key issues and to result in real deliverables to progress biodiversity informatics in the area.
 
We are establishing a Program Committee to plan the conference in detail and will keep you informed of progress."

@


1.5
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="PatriciaMergen" date="1236877572" format="1.1" version="1.5"}%
d6 3
@


1.4
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="ElizabethArnaud" date="1236804546" format="1.1" version="1.4"}%
d23 1
@


1.3
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="JoelSachs" date="1236644901" format="1.1" reprev="1.3" version="1.3"}%
d26 1
@


1.2
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="LeeBelbin" date="1236122328" format="1.1" version="1.2"}%
@


1.1
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="LeeBelbin" date="1235691868" format="1.1" reprev="1.1" version="1.1"}%
d4 3
a6 1
This is a workspace for the TDWG 2009 Programme Committee
d14 1
a14 3
---++Starting Point
This is a copy of the part of Donald's email post to members and friends that relates to the TDWG 2009 programme. This committee should, as far as possible, seek to follow the wishes of the TDWG Chair (as endorsed by the TDWG Executive Committee).

d21 2
a22 14
---++Things To Do (please add/delete/modify)
   1. Clarify the three themes (eBiosphere outcomes, agricultural biodiversity informatics, ??). Suggestions from TDWG 2008 and subsequent emails to me are listed in the TDWG 2009 Ideas document below. Eamonn and Patricia were supporting the idea of biodiversity informatics in developing countries. Donald more recently feels that it would be good to try and weave in the issues raised by Annie (Lee: hence on the Programme Committee) of how TDWG addresses problems of new 'application groups' such as Invasive Species (see http://wiki.tdwg.org/twiki/bin/view/InvasiveSpecies/GisinRequirements).
   1. Identify the three 'Theme Leaders'. They will have autonomy to develop their programme and interact with each other and this committee to ensure effective coordination.
   1. Identify the titles and Sessions Chairs for each of the eight 1/4 day sessions on Monday November 9th and Friday November 13th.
   1. Determine if and how poster and computer demonstrations will be run and identify Editors for OJS for the abstracts.
   1. Contact group Conveners encouraging a) inputs to Theme Leaders, b) Session Chairs and c) Any requirements for group meetings. Aspects of this are somewhat of a catch-22 in that Conveners may request a session as in (2) above.


-- Main.LeeBelbin - 26 Feb 2009

---++Attached Files

   * [[%ATTACHURL%/TDWG_2009_Ideas.doc][TDWG_2009_Ideas.doc]]: Submitted ideas for themes for TDWG 2009
   * [[%ATTACHURL%/TDWG_ConferenceGuidelines_v5.docx][TDWG_ConferenceGuidelines_v5.docx]]: Draft (V5) of Guidelines for TDWG Conferences
@
