%META:TOPICINFO{author="PeterNeish" date="1175577848" format="1.1" version="1.11"}%
%META:TOPICPARENT{name="AustralasianBiodiversityFederationLsidPolicy"}%
*This page will change during the week.*  Please visit again for up-to-date information.

---+!! An LSID policy for Australasian Biodiversity Informatics

---++ 1. Some suggested Reading and/or browsing  ( Pick your level )

   * [[http://www.tdwg.org/subgroups/guid/][TDWG GUID Task Group]]
   * [[http://wiki.gbif.org/guidwiki/wikka.php?wakka=TdwgLsidApplicabilityStatement][TDWG LSID Applicability Statement]]
   * [[http://wiki.gbif.org/guidwiki/wikka.php?wakka=LSIDRoadmapOct2006Roadmap][TDWG LSID Roadmap]]

   * [[http://wiki.tdwg.org/twiki/bin/view/TAG/][TDWG Technical Architecture]]
   * [[http://wiki.tdwg.org/twiki/bin/view/TAG/TDWGOntology][TDWG Ontology]]
   * [[http://wiki.tdwg.org/twiki/bin/view/TAG/LsidVocs ][LSID RDF Vocabularies]]

   * [[http://www-128.ibm.com/developerworks/opensource/library/os-lsid/][LSID Tutorial]]
   * [[http://www-128.ibm.com/developerworks/opensource/library/os-lsidbp/][LSID Best Practices]]

   * [[http://www.omg.org/cgi-bin/doc?dtc/04-05-01][LSID Specification]]
   * [[http://linnaeus.zoology.gla.ac.uk/~rpage/lsid/tester/][LSID Tester]]
   * [[http://lsid.sourceforge.net/][LSID Source Forge]]

   * [[http://www.tdwg.org/activities/tapir/charter/][TAPIR]]
   * [[http://wiki.tdwg.org/twiki/bin/view/GUID/GUIDsForZoologicalNames][GUIDs and Zoological Names]]


---++ 2. Meeting Goals and Agenda

To establish policy guidelines for the application of LSIDs within the Australasian biodiversity federation and to develop to a roadmap for LSID implementation by, or for, local data providers and biodiversity informatics networks.

These outcomes and the process by which we achieve them are expected to provide valuable feedback to the TDWG GUID Group and to inform future LSID implementation projects.

Building on the TDWG LSID Applicability Statement and LSID Roadmap the aim is to:

   * Establish key principles for LSID integration with existing networks.
   * To prioritize LSID assignment to core classes;
   * To make recommendations as to the delegation of responsibility for allocation, persistence and resolution of LSIDs and;
   * To document a workplan and timeline for the implementation of LSID technology. 


---++ 3. Preparation for Discussion.

What problems do we expect to solve with LSIDs?

   * Record traceability, i.e., linking records back to their sources
   * Identifying and linking records across distributed systems
   * Facilitate data integration (through the use of RDF)
   * Modularization of transfer schemas (through RDF)
   * ...

What are the KEY BENEFITS of LSIDs?
   * ???
   * How does Australia-NZ (and hopefully the world) best attain those benefits?
   * What could Australia-NZ best do to contribute to the advancement of LSIDs?

What does an LSID the policy need to address- 

   * What are they assigned to?
   * Who will issue LSIDs?
   * What will LSIDs look like?
   * What standards are applicable?
   * What software is required? (what is available and what needs to be developed)


---++ 4. Data Modeling

   a. Define which data objects get LSIDs, e.g. taxon names, concepts, specimens, publications, collections, people.
   a. Define which providers should issue LSIDs for each kind of object. 
   a. Define the LSID metadata format for each kind of object using known vocabularies as much as possible, e.g. TDWG Ontology and LSID Vocabularies, Dublin Core, Prism.


---++ 5. Implementation Overview

Key tasks to implement LSIDs are:
   a. deploying LSID resolvers for each data source
   a. modifing existing user interfaces to make the data records "wear" their LSIDs, e.g., make web interfaces display the record LSID and return the LSID as an additional data field in query or web services responses.
   a. implementing any discovery, harvesting or querying mechanisms in addition to LSID resolution, e.g. TAPIR, UDDI, etc.

---++6. Meeting Minutes

The AbfLsidMeetingMinutes will appear here soon.

----

Main.RicardoPereira - 16 Feb 2007

Main.GregWhitbread - 01 Mar 2007

%META:TOPICMOVED{by="RicardoPereira" date="1172516825" from="GUID.AbfLsidPolicyCamberraMeeting2007Preparation" to="GUID.AbfLsidPolicyCanberraMeeting2007Preparation"}%
