%META:TOPICINFO{author="RicardoPereira" date="1173791332" format="1.1" version="1.6"}%
---+++ GUID1 Plenary Session Minutes

This are the minutes for the plenary session on Feb 1, 2006, in telegraphic format. Feel free to expand it.

Cliff Cunningham - Presentation: [[%ATTACHURL%/GUID_1_Plenary_1_Opening_CliffCunningham_NESCent.ppt]]

DonaldHobern - Presentation: [[%ATTACHURL%/GUID_1_Plenary_2_Introduction_DonaldHobern.ppt]]


Participants Introduction:

   * RicardoPereira - TDWG Infrastructure Project, Brazil
   * Peter Dawyndt - Ghent, microorganisms, global network of strains
   * Hideaki Sugawara - Japan, WFCC, GBIF-Japan, nucleotide sequence database (DDBJ)
   * Stan Blum - California Academy of Sciences, TDWG, GBIF, collection data, DIGIR, DWC
   * Stinger Guala - Baton Rouge, USDA Plants DB, names, concepts, distribution records, TDWG, DIGIT
   * MI Zuberi - Bangladesh, lots of biodiversity, Indian subcontinent, population geneticist
   * DagTerje - IPGRI, global germplasm, index of regional collecting events, Nordic Genebank
   * Paul Kirk - CABI Bioscience, IF
   * MattJones - NCEAS, informatics projects, Synthesis activities, SEEK, modeling, metadata
   * Kevin Richards - Landcare, collections, names, LSID on .NET
   * Roger Hyam - TDWG, process, architecture
   * Sally Hinchcliffe - Kew, IPNI, specimens, technical solution with minimal work
   * Patricia Gensel - NESCent, paleobiology
   * Andrew Jones - Cardiff, SPICE, LITCHI, persistence of ids
   * Scott Federhen - GenBank, sequences to specimens, systematic literature
   * Robert Huber - Bremen, WDC-MARE, data set identification for citation, marine, taxon names, Stratigraphy.net
   * Donald Hobern - GBIF, TDWG
   * Lee Belbin - TDWG infrastructure
   * Damian Barnier - CBIT, identification keys
   * BobPeet - UNC, Ecoinformatics, vegetation data, VegBank, SEEK taxon group
   * Ben Szekely - IBM, LSID, best practices
   * RichPyle - Bishop, NBII Pacific basic,
   * Simon Coppard - ICZN, vertebrate taxonomy, ZooBank
   * Jessie Kennedy - Napier, TCS
   * George Garrity - Michigan, later
   * Greg Riccardi - FSU, MorphBank, GGF database access and integration services WG
   * RodPage - Glasgow, TreeBase, LSIDs, Handles, why not tomorrow
   * Steven Perry - KU, DiGIR 2, LSIDs
   * Cliff Cunningham - NESCent, find home for all data submitted to evolutionary journals, need GUIDs
 
RicardoPereira - Presentation: [[%ATTACHURL%/GUID_1_Plenary_3_Definitions_RicardoPereira.ppt]]

Jessie Kennedy - Presentation: [[%ATTACHURL%/GUID_1_Plenary_4_ReqsForTaxonNamesAndConcepts_JessieKennedy.ppt]]

RicardoPereira - Presentation: [[%ATTACHURL%/GUID_1_Plenary_5_ReqsForSpecimensAndCollections_RicardoPereira.ppt]]


   * Greg Riccardi - Collections Management software does hold ids in the short-term
   * Peter Dawyndt/Sally Hinchcliffe/RichPyle - doesn't work now in practice with current practices, numbers not necessarily unique, history varies
   * George Garrity - Also live samples
   * Jessie Kennedy - Clarify why discussed relationships between GUIDs after saying this wasn't the subject
   * RicardoPereira /Donald Hobern - background for what we are doing
   * Bob Peet - Be sensitive to the needs for observations, etc.
   * MattJones - Discussing specimens is interesting because deals with concrete examples, which doesn't apply to observations
   * George Garrity - Rights management need to be discussed
   * Scott Federhen - Even for specimens, the record is digital so not clear
   * Greg Riccardi - QOS is the real issue with GUIDs

 
   * RodericPage - Presentation: [[%ATTACHURL%/GUID_1_Plenary_8_GUIDs_Metadata_RDF_RodericPage.ppt]]

   * Jessie Kennedy - Your inference example - should we believe these inferences
   * Sally Hinchcliffe - It's the metadata that helps us to know
   * MattJones - Incompatible inferences are certainly a problem

 
   * Ben Szekely - Presentation: [[%ATTACHURL%/GUID_1_Plenary_6_LifeSciencesIndentifiers_BenSzekely.ppt]]
   * Scott Federhen - GenBank not guaranteed to return same byte sequence - FASTA files can be changed by changes to organism names
   * RichPyle - When should versions be used? 
   * Ben Szekely - recommend you don't, because versioning should really be addressed by metadata linkages
   * Sally Hinchcliffe - What of multiple services for same LSID? 
   * Ben Szekely - We developed a service to allow resolvers to provide information to originators that they have foreign metadata for the LSID


   * George Garrity - Presentation: [[%ATTACHURL%/GUID_1_Plenary_7_DigitalObjectIdentifiers_GeorgeGarrity.ppt]]
   * Paul Kirk - Cost is the issue.
   * Robert Huber - For WDC-Mare, c. 25 cents per DOI vs. 1000&#65533; data acquisition costs per data set
   * Scott Federhen - RA maintenance of ids is still a cost
   * George Garrity - what is the user community? What would they pay for?
 

   * Donald Hobern - Presentation: [[%ATTACHURL%/GUID_1_Plenary_9_IdentifyingObjects_DonaldHobern.ppt]]
   * Stan Blum - Do we ever have external objects to which we want to assign GUIDs?
   * RogerHyam - Objects can have different facets?
   * Sally Hinchcliffe - Separate between "should" and "is".
   * RichPyle - Do GUIDs get moved when specimens are transferred to other organizations?
   * Scott Federhen - Common situation e.g. with Jansen butterflies
   * Stan Blum - This sort of thing will be modeled through applicability statements
   * Ben Szekely - My instinct would be to assign new id with link to new authority
   * Donald Hobern - May wish to attach non-actionable GUIDs to objects and actionable ones to data objects
   * RichPyle - Applies whenever multiple providers describe same thing
   * RicardoPereira - Catalogue numbers already exist - cannot change this - need to concentrate on linkages between digital objects
   * Stan Blum - Cancelation of duplicates requires GUIDs?
   * MattJones - Need also to meet needs of students and professors sharing data
   * Jessie Kennedy/Sally Hinchcliffe - We musn't get too hung up on opacity
   * RicardoPereira - Let's list criteria we have to evaluate systems
   * Andrew Jones - If we adopt LSID, would it not be sensible to adopt standards in use with other LSID implementations, etc.
   * Peter Dawyndt - Always need to be able to handle having multiple identifiers for same thing
   * Jessie Kennedy - Must address the requirements

