head	1.8;
access;
symbols;
locks; strict;
comment	@# @;


1.8
date	2006.02.13.19.35.29;	author RicardoPereira;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.7;

1.7
date	2006.02.10.17.31.24;	author RicardoPereira;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.6;

1.6
date	2006.02.10.17.15.15;	author RicardoPereira;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.5;

1.5
date	2006.02.10.15.12.53;	author RicardoPereira;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.4;

1.4
date	2006.02.10.15.11.05;	author RicardoPereira;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.3;

1.3
date	2006.02.10.15.10.44;	author RicardoPereira;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.2;

1.2
date	2006.02.10.14.55.24;	author RicardoPereira;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.1;

1.1
date	2006.02.10.14.54.12;	author RicardoPereira;	state Exp;
branches;
next	;


desc
@
.
@


1.8
log
@Added page to CategoryGUID1
.
@
text
@---++ GUID-1 Workshop Minutes and Presentations

This page contains the full set of materials presented during the GUID-1 Workshop as well as the minutes of the sessions.

GUID-1 Workshop Report: [[GUID1Report]]

Full set of presentations: [[%ATTACHURL%/PresentationsForReport.zip]]

Plenary sessions on Wednesday, Feb 1st, 2006:
   * [[GUID1PlenarySessionMinutes][Plenary Session Minutes]]
   * [[%ATTACHURL%/GUID_1_Plenary_1_Opening_CliffCunningham_NESCent.ppt]]
   * [[%ATTACHURL%/GUID_1_Plenary_2_Introduction_DonaldHobern.ppt]]
   * [[%ATTACHURL%/GUID_1_Plenary_3_Definitions_RicardoPereira.ppt]]
   * [[%ATTACHURL%/GUID_1_Plenary_4_ReqsForTaxonNamesAndConcepts_JessieKennedy.ppt]]
   * [[%ATTACHURL%/GUID_1_Plenary_5_ReqsForSpecimensAndCollections_RicardoPereira.ppt]]
   * [[%ATTACHURL%/GUID_1_Plenary_6_LifeSciencesIndentifiers_BenSzekely.ppt]]
   * [[%ATTACHURL%/GUID_1_Plenary_7_DigitalObjectIdentifiers_GeorgeGarrity.ppt]]
   * [[%ATTACHURL%/GUID_1_Plenary_8_GUIDs_Metadata_RDF_RodericPage.ppt]]
   * [[%ATTACHURL%/GUID_1_Plenary_9_IdentifyingObjects_DonaldHobern.ppt]]

Presentations from plenary sessions on Wednesday, Feb 1st, 2006:
   * [[%ATTACHURL%/GUID_1_Proposals.ppt]]
   * [[%ATTACHURL%/GUID_1_Proposals_1_Infrastructure.ppt]]
   * [[%ATTACHURL%/GUID_1_Proposals_2_DevelopmentGroup.ppt]]
   * [[%ATTACHURL%/GUID_1_Proposals_3_LSID_SoftwareAndSpecReview.ppt]]
   * [[%ATTACHURL%/GUID_1_Proposals_4_NullGUIDsGroup.ppt]]
   * [[%ATTACHURL%/GUID_1_Proposals_AllWorkingGroups.ppt]]


----
---+++++ Categories
CategoryGUID1

@


1.7
log
@
.
@
text
@d30 3
a32 3



@


1.6
log
@
.
@
text
@d10 1
a19 1
   * [[GUID1PlenarySessionMinutes]] are coming soon.
@


1.5
log
@
.
@
text
@d19 1
a19 1
   * Session minutes are coming soon.
@


1.4
log
@
.
@
text
@d5 2
@


1.3
log
@
.
@
text
@d5 1
a5 1
Full set of presentations: [[%ATTACHURL%/imagesForReport.zip]]
@


1.2
log
@
.
@
text
@d5 1
a5 3
*Note:* Due to a technical problem, the server is denying access to the files in this page. This will be fixed momentarily.

Full set of presentations: [[http://wiki.gbif.org/guidwiki/presentations/PresentationsForReport.zip]]
d8 9
a16 9
   * [[http://wiki.gbif.org/guidwiki/presentations/GUID_1_Plenary_1_Opening_CliffCunningham_NESCent.ppt]]
   * [[http://wiki.gbif.org/guidwiki/presentations/GUID_1_Plenary_2_Introduction_DonaldHobern.ppt]]
   * [[http://wiki.gbif.org/guidwiki/presentations/GUID_1_Plenary_3_Definitions_RicardoPereira.ppt]]
   * [[http://wiki.gbif.org/guidwiki/presentations/GUID_1_Plenary_4_ReqsForTaxonNamesAndConcepts_JessieKennedy.ppt]]
   * [[http://wiki.gbif.org/guidwiki/presentations/GUID_1_Plenary_5_ReqsForSpecimensAndCollections_RicardoPereira.ppt]]
   * [[http://wiki.gbif.org/guidwiki/presentations/GUID_1_Plenary_6_LifeSciencesIndentifiers_BenSzekely.ppt]]
   * [[http://wiki.gbif.org/guidwiki/presentations/GUID_1_Plenary_7_DigitalObjectIdentifiers_GeorgeGarrity.ppt]]
   * [[http://wiki.gbif.org/guidwiki/presentations/GUID_1_Plenary_8_GUIDs_Metadata_RDF_RodericPage.ppt]]
   * [[http://wiki.gbif.org/guidwiki/presentations/GUID_1_Plenary_9_IdentifyingObjects_DonaldHobern.ppt]]
d20 6
a25 6
   * [[http://wiki.gbif.org/guidwiki/presentations/GUID_1_Proposals.ppt]]
   * [[http://wiki.gbif.org/guidwiki/presentations/GUID_1_Proposals_1_Infrastructure.ppt]]
   * [[http://wiki.gbif.org/guidwiki/presentations/GUID_1_Proposals_2_DevelopmentGroup.ppt]]
   * [[http://wiki.gbif.org/guidwiki/presentations/GUID_1_Proposals_3_LSID_SoftwareAndSpecReview.ppt]]
   * [[http://wiki.gbif.org/guidwiki/presentations/GUID_1_Proposals_4_NullGUIDsGroup.ppt]]
   * [[http://wiki.gbif.org/guidwiki/presentations/GUID_1_Proposals_AllWorkingGroups.ppt]]
@


1.1
log
@Initial revision
@
text
@d5 2
@
