%META:TOPICINFO{author="RicardoPereira" date="1170081263" format="1.1" version="1.5"}%
---+++ Second announcement for GUID-2 Workshop

Hi Folks

The second GUID workshop is going to be hosted by eSI in Edinburgh June 10-12. As the details emerge, I'll add them to the Wiki-

http://wiki.gbif.org/guidwiki/wikka.php?wakka=GUID2Workshop

The current game plan is to derive a set of recommendations from the tasks within the Infrastructure and Prototyping Working Groups. It would be good if the Task Coordinators could circulate any recommendations (as dot points) before June 3. This gives us a week for consideration.

The second workshop has 4 tasks-

   1.  Report findings
   1.  Refine recommendations
   1.  (Briefly) justify the recommendations (so that future readers could follow the logic) and 
   1.  Design an implementation plan.

I've been going through the tasks on the Wiki and note that 9 still do not have a coordinator. A few have a coordinator, but either there hasn't been any activity, or the Wiki hasn't been updated. It would be good if the load could be spread as I know that everyone is busy with their day job. If you know of someone who could advance any of the tasks, please let them loose. Which of these tasks is a real priority and which ones should be dropped or reduced? 

*Infrastructure Working group*

| # | Task | Coordinator |
| 2 | LSIDLongTermArchival | NONE |
| 3 | GUIDRegistrationAuthority | NONE |
| 4 | GUIDOrphanDatasets | NONE |
| 7 | GUIDAnnotationAndLinkOut | NONE |
| 8 | GUIDOutreach | NONE |
| 10 | LSIDSpecificationReview | Ricardo Pereira |

*Prototyping Working Group*

| # | Task | Coordinator |
| 1 | LSIDResolverForTaxonNamesIPNI | Roger Hyam |
| 2 | LSIDResolverForSpecimens | Steve Perry |
| 4 | LSIDResolverForObservations | NONE? |
| 7 | LSIDResolverMorphbank | Greg Riccardi |
| 8 | LSIDScalabilityTesting | NONE |
| 9 | LSIDBasedIntegrationAntsDemo | NONE |
| 10 | LSIDSEEKTaxonResolutionServer | NONE |

If there is anything that I may be able to do to help, please let me know.

Lee

*Lee Belbin*
Manager, TDWG Infrastructure Project
Email: lee@tdwg.org
Phone: +61(0)419 374 133
