head	1.32;
access;
symbols;
locks; strict;
comment	@# @;


1.32
date	2006.06.22.17.40.05;	author RicardoPereira;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.31;

1.31
date	2006.06.22.17.27.43;	author RicardoPereira;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.30;

1.30
date	2006.06.13.10.43.08;	author RicardoPereira;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.29;

1.29
date	2006.06.13.10.41.43;	author CharlesCopp;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.28;

1.28
date	2006.06.12.15.08.17;	author RicardoPereira;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.27;

1.27
date	2006.06.12.15.07.38;	author RicardoPereira;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.26;

1.26
date	2006.05.24.14.08.11;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.25;

1.25
date	2006.05.11.20.52.43;	author RicardoPereira;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.24;

1.24
date	2006.05.11.20.51.34;	author RicardoPereira;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.23;

1.23
date	2006.05.11.20.49.47;	author RicardoPereira;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.22;

1.22
date	2006.05.11.20.45.27;	author RicardoPereira;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.21;

1.21
date	2006.05.11.20.42.21;	author RicardoPereira;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.20;

1.20
date	2006.05.11.01.19.47;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.19;

1.19
date	2006.05.11.01.19.25;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.18;

1.18
date	2006.05.10.11.42.17;	author DonaldHobern;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.17;

1.17
date	2006.05.10.01.23.31;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.16;

1.16
date	2006.05.09.12.16.08;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.15;

1.15
date	2006.05.09.12.14.16;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.14;

1.14
date	2006.04.21.02.08.59;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.13;

1.13
date	2006.04.19.04.55.56;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.12;

1.12
date	2006.04.07.09.30.17;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.11;

1.11
date	2006.03.28.00.46.51;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.10;

1.10
date	2006.03.22.09.58.59;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.9;

1.9
date	2006.03.09.11.32.08;	author RicardoPereira;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.8;

1.8
date	2006.03.09.04.05.49;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.7;

1.7
date	2006.03.09.04.00.13;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.6;

1.6
date	2006.03.09.03.57.20;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.5;

1.5
date	2006.03.09.03.56.50;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.4;

1.4
date	2006.03.09.03.55.20;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.3;

1.3
date	2006.03.09.03.46.56;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.2;

1.2
date	2006.03.09.03.44.22;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.1;

1.1
date	2006.03.09.03.15.00;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	;


desc
@Draft 01
.
@


1.32
log
@Added link to GUID-2 Report (PDF version)
.
@
text
@*Note: The GUID-1 Workshop has already happened.*

----
---++ GUID-2 Workshop

The e-Science Institute [[http://www.nesc.ac.uk/esi/]] is going to host the *Second International Workshop on Globally Unique Identifiers (GUIDs) for Biodiversity Infromatics (GUID-2)*, June 10-12, 2006 in Edinburgh Scotland. 

GUID-2 is being organised by the Taxonomic Databases Working Group's (TDWG - http://www.tdwg.org) Infrastructure Project. This workshop will review the activity of the [[CategoryWorkingGroup][Working Groups]] established at the [[GUID1Workshop][First GUID Workshop]] hosted by NESCent in Durham, North Carolina (February 1-3, 2006) and generate final recommendations for establishing an effective infrastructure to support the use of LSIDs in biological informatics.

----
---+++ Resources

   * [[GUID2Call1][First call for GUID-2]] - First announcement about GUID-2 (7th March, 2006)
   * [[GUID2CALL2][Second call for GUID-2]] - Second announcement about GUID-2 (5th April 2006) 
   * [[CategoryWorkingGroup][Working Groups]]
   * [[GUID2Agenda][Draft Agenda]]
   * [[GUID2Participants][List of Participants]]
   * [[GUID2Report][GUID-2 Report]] - [[http://www.tdwg.gbif.org/fileadmin/subgroups/tip/GUID2Report.pdf][PDF Version]]
   * [[GUID2ReportComments][GUID-2 Report Comments]]

----
---+++ Working Groups
Five working groups were formed to address significant issues:
   * [[GUIDOutreach]]
   * [[GUID2WgPartitionOfDataAndOwnership]]
   * [[GUID2WgCaseForRdf]]
   * [[GUID2WgSoftwareDevelopment]]
   * [[GUID2WgCompositeObjects]]


----
---+++ Logistics

[[GUID2Logistics][Logistics for GUID-2]] - General instructions to invitees to GUID-2

----
---+++ Venue

[[http://www.nesc.ac.uk/esi/][e-Science Institute]]

e-Science Institute
15 South College Street
Edinburgh EH8 9AA
United Kingdom

----
---+++ Goals

   * Review the activities of the Working Groups formed at GUID-1
   * Final recommendations for establishing an effective infrastructure to support widespread use of LSIDs in biodiversity informatics

----
---+++ Involvement

''*Invitations to GUID-2 are now closed.*''

We still encourage *anyone* who is interested in helping to establish a global infrastructure to support the widespread use of LSIDs to get involved (quickly!) with either of the two [[CategoryWorkingGroup][Working Groups]]-

   * [[InfrastructureWorkingGroup][GUID-1 Infrastructure Working Group]]
   * [[PrototypingWorkingGroup][GUID-1 Prototyping Working Group]]

There are very limited places for GUID-2. Invitations to attend the workshop were based on contributions within the two working groups and representate client agencies. Airfares and expenses will be paid to attend GUID-2 from funding supplied by the Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation (http://www.moore.org/).

----
---+++ Contact
For all information about the GUID project, please contact *[[lee@@tdwg.org][Lee Belbin]]* (TDWG Infrastructure Project Manager).

----
---+++++ Categories
CategoryGUID2@


1.31
log
@
.
@
text
@a10 5
---+++ Logistics

[[GUID2Logistics][Logistics for GUID-2]] - General instructions to invitees to GUID-2

----
d18 2
a19 1
   * [[GUID2Report][GUID-2 Report]]
d32 5
@


1.30
log
@
.
@
text
@d1 3
@


1.29
log
@
.
@
text
@d20 1
a20 1
   * [[GUID2Report]]
@


1.28
log
@
.
@
text
@d20 1
@


1.27
log
@
.
@
text
@d24 1
a24 1
   * [[GUID2WgOutreach]]
@


1.26
log
@Invitations to GUID-2 now closed
.
@
text
@d22 10
@


1.25
log
@Moved agenda and participants into separate pages. Moved involvement section down.
.
@
text
@d39 4
a42 1
We encourage *anyone* who is interested in helping to establish a global infrastructure to support the widespread use of LSIDs to get involved (quickly!) with either of the two [[CategoryWorkingGroup][Working Groups]]-
d47 1
a47 1
There are very limited places for GUID-2. Invitations to attend the workshop will be based on contributions within the two working groups. Airfares and expenses will be paid to attend GUID-2 from funding supplied by the Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation (http://www.moore.org/).
@


1.24
log
@Moved agenda and participants into separate pages. Moved involvement section down.
.
@
text
@a30 2
See a [[%ATTACHURL%/Radisson_eSI.gif][walk map from the Radisson Hotel to e-Science Institute]].

@


1.23
log
@Moved agenda and participants into separate pages. Moved involvement section down. Added local map.
.
@
text
@a25 2
See a [[%ATTACHURL%/Radisson_eSI.gif][walk map from the Radisson Hotel to eSI]].

d31 2
@


1.22
log
@Moved agenda and participants into separate pages. Moved involvement section down.
.
@
text
@d24 3
a26 1
[[http://www,nesc.ac.uk/esi/][e-Science Institute]]
@


1.21
log
@Moved agenda into a separate page
.
@
text
@a7 34
---+++ Involvement
We encourage *anyone* who is interested in helping to establish a global infrastructure to support the widespread use of LSIDs to get involved (quickly!) with either of the two [[CategoryWorkingGroup][Working Groups]]-

   * [[InfrastructureWorkingGroup][GUID-1 Infrastructure Working Group]]
   * [[PrototypingWorkingGroup][GUID-1 Prototyping Working Group]]

There are very limited places for GUID-2. Invitations to attend the workshop will be based on contributions within the two working groups. Airfares and expenses will be paid to attend GUID-2 from funding supplied by the Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation (http://www.moore.org/).

*Attendance List*
Andrew Polaszek (ICZN: Sunday)
Ben Szekeley
Bob Morris
Charles Copp (Technical Writer)
Chuck Miller (Tropicos)
Damian Barnier
Donald Hobern
Jessie Kennedy
Kevin Richards
Lee Belbin
Ricardo Pereira
Rich Pyle
Rob Gales
Robert Hubert
Rod Page
Roger Hyam
Sally Hinchcliffe (RBG)
Simon Coppard (ICZN)
Stan Blum
Steve Perry
Tim Robertson (GBIF)
Tom Orrell (ITIS)


----
d38 9
@


1.20
log
@
.
@
text
@a71 207
---+++ Preliminary Agenda

""
<TABLE cellSpacing="2" cellPadding="2" width="100%" border="0">
  <TBODY>
  <TR>
   <TD vAlign="top" bgColor="#cccccc"><B>Time<BR></B></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top" bgColor="#cccccc"><B>Item<BR></B></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top" bgColor="#cccccc"><B>Notes<BR></B></TD></TR>
  <TR>
   <TD vAlign="top"><B>Saturday 10 June<BR></B></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top"><B>LSID Technology - lessons learned</B><BR></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top"><B><BR></B></TD></TR>
  <TR>
   <TD vAlign="top">09:00-09:15<BR></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top">Welcome and Logistics<BR></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top">Lee and Jessie<BR></TD></TR>
  <TR>
   <TD vAlign="top">09:15-09:30<BR></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top">Goals and overview for meeting and for day 1<BR></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top">Donald<BR></TD></TR>
  <TR>
   <TD vAlign="top">09:30-10:00<BR></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top">Architectural considerations for TDWG and GUIDs<BR>
     <BLOCKQUOTE>
       <OL>
         <LI><I>Summary of architectural recommendations from TAG</I>
         <LI><I>Specific implementations and issues for consideration by GUID
         group<BR></I></LI></OL></BLOCKQUOTE></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top">Roger<BR></TD></TR>
  <TR>
   <TD vAlign="top">10:00-10:30<BR></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top">Discussion<BR></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top"><BR></TD></TR>
  <TR>
   <TD vAlign="top"><I>10:30-11:00<BR></I></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top"><I>Tea and coffee<BR></I></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top"><I><BR></I></TD></TR>
  <TR>
   <TD vAlign="top">11:00-12:30<BR></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top">Reports on LSID prototyping activities<BR>
     <BLOCKQUOTE><I>Need to find out who wishes to present and schedule accordingly.&nbsp; Guidelines:</I><BR>
       <OL>
         <LI><I>Presentation no longer than 15 minutes</I>
         <LI><I>Must address:</I>
         <OL type="a">
           <LI><I>Class(es) of data covered</I>
           <LI><I>Metadata representation</I>
           <LI><I>Data representation (where appropriate)</I>
           <LI><I>Experience of establishing software stack</I>
           <LI><I>Recommendations from prototype</I>
           <OL type="i">
             <LI><I>General recommendations on LSID implementation</I>
             <LI><I>Specific recommendations for future LSID implementations for chosen data class(es)<BR></I></LI></OL></LI></OL></LI></OL></BLOCKQUOTE></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top"><BR></TD></TR>
  <TR>
   <TD vAlign="top"><I>12:30-13:30</I><BR></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top"><I>Lunch<BR></I></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top"><I><BR></I></TD></TR>
  <TR>
   <TD vAlign="top">13:30-15:00<BR></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top">Reports on LSID prototyping activities (continued)<BR></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top"><BR></TD></TR>
  <TR>
   <TD vAlign="top"><I>15:00-15:30<BR></I></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top"><I>Tea and coffee<BR></I></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top"><I><BR></I></TD></TR>
  <TR>
   <TD vAlign="top">15:30-17:00<BR></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top">Discussion and documentation of lessons learned from prototyping<BR></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top"><BR></TD></TR>
  <TR>
   <TD vAlign="top"><BR></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top"><BR></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top"><BR></TD></TR>
  <TR>
   <TD vAlign="top"><B>Sunday 11 June</B><BR></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top"><B>LSID Usage - infrastructure options</B><BR></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top"><BR></TD></TR>
  <TR>
   <TD vAlign="top">09:00-09:15<BR></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top">Goals and overview for day<BR></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top">Donald<BR></TD></TR>
  <TR>
   <TD vAlign="top">09:15-10:30<BR></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top">Summary of existing software components<BR>
     <BLOCKQUOTE><I>For each of the following components, document:<BR></I>
       <OL>
         <LI><I>Current status</I>
         <LI><I>Outstanding needs</I>
         <LI><I>Plans for resolving needs<BR></I></LI></OL></BLOCKQUOTE>
     <BLOCKQUOTE><I>Essential components:<BR></I>
       <OL>
         <LI><I>LSID resolver implementations</I>
         <LI><I>LSID integration into other provider software</I>
         <OL type="a">
           <LI><I>DiGIR</I>
           <LI><I>TAPIR</I> </LI></OL>
         <LI><I>LSID browser clients</I>
         <LI><I>LSID client API packages</I>

</LI></OL></BLOCKQUOTE></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top">Ricardo<BR></TD></TR>
  <TR>
   <TD vAlign="top"><I>10:30-11:00<BR></I></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top"><I>Tea and coffee<BR></I></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top"><BR></TD></TR>
  <TR>
   <TD vAlign="top">11:00-12:30<BR></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top">Additional components of an LSID network<BR>
     <BLOCKQUOTE><I>Consider the need for the following potential additional components:<BR></I>
       <OL>
         <LI><I>LSID-enabled data hosting services (including archival
         services)</I>
         <OL type="a">
           <LI><I>Is there a demand for such services to be offered?</I>
           <LI><I>Should such services be offered to promote long-term archival of LSID-related data sets?<BR></I></LI></OL>
         <LI><I>Proxy LSID resolver services</I>
         <OL type="a">
           <LI><I>Is there a demand for such services to be
           offered?<BR></I></LI></OL>
         <LI><I>Third-party annotation mechanisms</I>
         <OL type="a">
           <LI><I>Should we adopt/recommend a standard approach, tools or services for this function?<BR></I></LI></OL></LI></OL></BLOCKQUOTE>
     <BLOCKQUOTE></BLOCKQUOTE></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top">Donald<BR></TD></TR>
  <TR>
   <TD vAlign="top"><I>12:30-13:30<BR></I></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top"><I>Lunch<BR></I></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top"><BR></TD></TR>
  <TR>
   <TD vAlign="top">13:30-15:00<BR></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top">Domain-specific implementation<BR>
     <BLOCKQUOTE>
       <OL>
         <LI><I>Consider infrastructure requirements for different sub-domains (or different classes of data).&nbsp; Are there any additional services or tools which should be developed to support a particular sub-domain?</I>
         <LI><I>Particularly consider question of preferred owners/issuers of LSIDs for particular classes of data.<BR></I></LI></OL></BLOCKQUOTE></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top"><BR></TD></TR>
  <TR>
   <TD vAlign="top"><I>15:00-15:30<BR></I></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top"><I>Tea and coffee<BR></I></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top"><BR></TD></TR>
  <TR>
   <TD vAlign="top">15:30-17:00<BR></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top">Sociology of LSID adoption<BR>
     <BLOCKQUOTE><I>Discussion of issues which may hinder the adoption or take-up of LSIDs and possible mitigations</I><BR></BLOCKQUOTE></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top"><BR></TD></TR>
  <TR>
   <TD vAlign="top"><BR></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top"><BR></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top"><BR></TD></TR>
  <TR>
   <TD vAlign="top"><B>Monday 12 June</B><BR></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top"><B>Application and best practices</B><BR></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top"><BR></TD></TR>
  <TR>
   <TD vAlign="top">09:00-09:15<BR></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top">Goals and overview for day<BR></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top">Donald<BR></TD></TR>
  <TR>
   <TD vAlign="top">09:15-10:30<BR></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top">Applicability statements for LSIDs - general
     applicability<BR>
     <BLOCKQUOTE>
       <OL>
         <LI><I>Distinction between core TDWG applicability statement for LSIDs within TDWG data standards and inclusion in applicability statements for different sub-domains</I>
         <LI><I>Review of "Minimal Standards for LSID Issuing"</I>
         <LI><I>Consider any technical issues regarding use of LSIDs in different contexts which may be addressed through best practices in issuing LSIDs</I>
         <LI><I>Consider implications of use of non-LSID identifiers within TDWG data<BR></I></LI></OL></BLOCKQUOTE></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top"><BR></TD></TR>
  <TR>
   <TD vAlign="top"><I>10:30-11:00<BR></I></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top"><I>Tea and coffee<BR></I></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top"><BR></TD></TR>
  <TR>
   <TD vAlign="top">11:00-12:30<BR></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top">Applicability statements for LSIDs - draft recommendations by sub-domain<BR>
     <BLOCKQUOTE><I>Document recommendations for each of the following
       sub-domains, for further consideration by sub-groups:</I><BR>
       <OL>
         <LI><I>Nomenclature</I>
         <LI><I>Taxonomy</I>
         <LI><I>Institutions and collections</I><BR>
         <LI><I>Specimens</I>
         <LI><I>Field observations</I>
         <LI><I>Descriptive data</I>
         <LI><I>Images<BR></I></LI></OL></BLOCKQUOTE></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top"><BR></TD></TR>
  <TR>
   <TD vAlign="top"><I>12:30-13:30<BR></I></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top"><I>Lunch<BR></I></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top"><I><BR></I></TD></TR>
  <TR>
   <TD vAlign="top">13:30-15:00<BR></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top">Applicability statements for LSIDs - draft recommendations by sub-domain (continued)<BR></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top"><BR></TD></TR>
  <TR>
   <TD vAlign="top">15:00-15:30<BR></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top"><I>Tea and coffee</I><BR></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top"><BR></TD></TR>
  <TR>
   <TD vAlign="top">15:30-17:00<BR></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top">Review, summary and documentation of conclusions<BR></TD>
   <TD vAlign="top"><BR></TD></TR></TBODY></TABLE>
""

----
@


1.19
log
@Latecommer
.
@
text
@d37 1
a37 1
Tom Robertson (GBIF)
@


1.18
log
@
.
@
text
@d37 1
@


1.17
log
@Add attendance list
.
@
text
@d73 98
a170 1
A more detailed agenda is in preparation and will be posted by around May 15 2006.
d172 104
a275 5
*Day 1* - Review the activities for the two Working Groups
*Day 2* - Review the activities for the two Working Groups
*Day 3* - Generate final recommendations

The meeting times will be 0900-1700 with 1030-1100, 1230-1330 and 1500-1530 for breaks.
@


1.16
log
@Plan to preliminary agenda
.
@
text
@d16 24
@


1.15
log
@Meeting times added
.
@
text
@d47 3
a49 1
---+++ Preliminary Plan
@


1.14
log
@Highlight logistics
.
@
text
@d53 2
@


1.13
log
@Highlight logistics as rego is now open
.
@
text
@d17 5
a25 3

   * *[[GUID2Logistics][Logistics for GUID-2]] - General instructions to invitees to GUID-2*

@


1.12
log
@
.
@
text
@d21 3
a23 1
   * [[GUID2Logistics][Logistics]] - General instructions to participants (when you arrive at the airport, etc).
@


1.11
log
@
.
@
text
@d19 2
a20 1
   * [[GUID2Call1][First call for GUID-2]] - First e-mail about GUID-2 (7th March, 2006)
@


1.10
log
@Add Moore Foundation URL & remove ESI contact till finalised
.
@
text
@d3 1
a3 1
The e-Science Institute [[http://www.nesc.ac.uk/esi/]] is going to host the *Second International Workshop on Globally Unique Identifiers (GUIDs) for Biodiversity (GUID-2)*, probably June 10-12, 2006 in Edinburgh Scotland. 
d39 1
a39 1
   * Final recommendations for an effective infrastructure to support widespread use of LSIDs in biodiversity informatics
@


1.9
log
@Fixed link to GUID-1 Workshop
.
@
text
@d14 1
a14 1
There are very limited places for GUID-2. Invitations to attend the workshop will be based on contributions within the two working groups. Airfares and expenses will be paid to attend GUID-2 from funding supplied by the Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation.
a34 4
Conference Management: Gill Maddy
gill@@nesc.ac.uk
+44 (0)131 650 9816

d39 1
a39 1
   * Final recommendations for an effective infrastructure to support widespread use of LSIDs
@


1.8
log
@Add call-1
.
@
text
@d5 1
a5 1
GUID-2 is being organised by the Taxonomic Databases Working Group's (TDWG - http://www.tdwg.org) Infrastructure Project. This workshop will review the activity of the [[CategoryWorkingGroup][Working Groups]] established at the *[[GUID-1Workshop][First GUID Workshop]]* hosted by NESCent in Durham, North Carolina (February 1-3, 2006) and generate final recommendations for establishing an effective infrastructure to support the use of LSIDs in biological informatics.
@


1.7
log
@Typos 06
.
@
text
@d19 1
@


1.6
log
@Typos 05
.
@
text
@d3 1
a3 1
The e-Science Institute [[http://www.nesc.ac.uk/esi/]] is going to host the *Second International Workshop on Globally Unique Identifiers (GUIDs) for Biodiversity (GUID-2)*, probably *June 10-12, 2006* in Edinburgh Scotland. GUID-2 is being organised by the Taxonomic Databases Working Group's (TDWG - http://www.tdwg.org) Infrastructure Project.  
d5 1
a5 1
This workshop will review the activity of the [[CategoryWorkingGroup][Working Groups]] established at the *[[GUID-1Workshop][First GUID Workshop]]* hosted by NESCent in Durham, North Carolina (February 1-3, 2006) and generate final recommendations for establishing an effective infrastructure to support the use of LSIDs in biological informatics.
d53 1
a53 1
For all information about the GUID project, please contact *Lee Belbin* (TDWG Infrastructure Project Manager) at [[lee@@tdwg.org][Lee's e-mail address]].
@


1.5
log
@Typos 04
.
@
text
@d14 1
a14 1
There are very limited places for GUID-2. Invitations to attend the workshop will be based on contributions within the two working groups. Airfares and expenses will be paid to attend GUID-2 from funding supplied by the Gordon and Betty Moore Founation.
@


1.4
log
@Typos 03
.
@
text
@d3 1
a3 1
The e-Science Institute [[http://www.nesc.ac.uk/esi/]] is going to host the *Second International Workshop on Globally Unique Identifiers (GUIDs) for Biodiversity (GUID-2)*, probably *June 10-12, 2006* in Edinburgh Scotland. GUID-2 is being organised by the Taxonomic Databases Working Group's (TDWG - http://www.tdwg.org) Infrastructure Project (see http://www.tdwg.hyam.net/twiki/bin/view/TIP/WebHome).  
d14 1
a14 1
There are very limited places for GUID-2. Invitations to attend the workshop will be based on contributions within the two working groups. Airfares and expenses will be paid to attend GUID-2 from funding supplied by the Gordon and betty Moore Founation.
@


1.3
log
@Typos 02
.
@
text
@d9 1
a9 1
We encourage *anyone* who is interested in helping to establish a global infrastructure to support the widespread use of LSIDs to get involved (quickly!) with either of the two [[CategoryWorkingGroups][Working Groups]]-
d53 1
a53 1
For all information about the GUID project, please contact *Lee Belbin* (TDWG Infrastructure Project Manager) at lee@@tdwg.org.
@


1.2
log
@Minor Typos
.
@
text
@d3 1
a3 1
The e-Science Institute [[http://www.nesc.ac.uk/esi/]] is going to host the *Second International Workshop on Globally Unique Identifiers (GUIDs) for Biodiversity (GUID-2)*, probably *June 10-12, 2006* in Edinburgh Scotland. GUID-2 is being organised by the Taxonomic Databases Working Group's (TDWG - http://www.tdwg.org) Infrastructure Project (see http://www.tdwg.hyam.net/twiki/bin/view/TIP/Review_TIPDocuments_Dec2005).  
@


1.1
log
@Initial revision
@
text
@d3 1
a3 1
The e-Science Institute [[http://http://www.nesc.ac.uk/esi/]] is going to host the *Second International Workshop on Globally Unique Identifiers (GUIDs) for Biodiversity (GUID-2)*, probably *June 10-12, 2006* in Edinburgh Scotland. GUID-2 is being organised by the Taxonomic Databases Working Group's (TDWG - http://www.tdwg.org) Infrastructure Project.  
@
