%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1186653205" format="1.1" version="1.7"}%
%META:TOPICPARENT{name="WebHome"}%
---+ <nop>%TOPIC%

The first TAG meeting took place at the [[http://www.nesc.ac.uk/esi/][eScience Institute]] 11-13 April 2006 and was kindly hosted by Jessie Kennedy under the [[http://www.nesc.ac.uk/esi/themes/theme_02/index.htm][Exploiting Diverse Sources of Scientific Data]] theme.

A final report has been prepared for the meeting and can be dowloaded and commented on: TagMeeting1Report

See also TagMeeting2

---++ Motivation

The [[http://wiki.gbif.org/guidwiki/wikka.php?wakka=GUID1Workshop][GUID-1]] meeting on 1-3 February 2006 at [[http://www.nescent.org/main/][NESCent]] was the first of two meetings held as part of the [[http://wiki.gbif.org/guidwiki/wikka.php?wakka=HomePage][TDWG/GBIF GUID project]]. 

The [[http://wiki.gbif.org/guidwiki/wikka.php?wakka=GUID1Report][outcome]] of this meeting was to propose the use of Life Science Identifiers ([[http://lsid.sourceforge.net/][LSID]]) as the preferred GUID technology within the Biodiversity Community. This has major implications for developing a TDWG 'common architecture' for its standards. Many of the objects found in the domain will soon be tagged with globally unique IDs. There are immediate plans to tag specimens, TaxonNames and TaxonConcepts and it is proposed to tag literature records, images and other objects.

LSIDs are resolvable identifiers and the LSID specification recommends the use of RDF to encode metadata. This suggests an architecture consisting of a number of discrete objects encoded in RDF and linked by LSIDs.

There is funding available for a small team to meet and discuss the implications of this decision and make recommendations for how to proceed.

---++ Attendees

A call was made through TDWG mailing lists for participants. Attendees of this first meeting represent the main technologies in use in the TDWG community. The intension is to produce a consensus view of the current technical situation, challenges and opportunities that can be presented to wider community as a coherent vision. The meeting is being kept small to maintain focus. The list of attendees is given below and is now closed. If you would like issues raised at the meeting please bring them up on the TAG mailing list or approach one of these attendees and ask them to represent your views.

|*Name*|*email*|
|Roger Hyam|roger at tdwg.org|
|Jessie Kennedy|J.Kennedy _at_ napier.ac.uk|
|Markus Doring|m.doering (at) BGBM.org|
|Greg Whitbread|ghw [at] anbg.gov.au|
|Gregor Hagedorn|G.Hagedorn {at} BBA.DE|
|John Wieczorek|tuco at berkeley.edu|
|Katharina Schleidt|katharina.schleidt _at_ umweltbundesamt.at|
|Steve Perry|smperry (at) ku.edu|
|Renato Giovanni|renato _at_ cria.org.br|
|Rob Gales|rgales {at} ku.edu|
|Robert Kukla|R.Kukla {at}napier.ac.uk|
|Javier de la Torre|jatorre [at] gmail.com|
|Dave Vieglais|vieglais _at_ ku.edu|
|Herbert Schentz|herbert.schentz (at) umweltbundesamt.at|

---++ Agenda
A detailed Agenda for the meeting is being prepared on another wikipage: TagMeeting1Agenda

---++ Outputs
The meeting will produce a written report that will be presented to the TDWG Executive Committee and then circulated. The detailed contents of the report will be developed along with the agenda for the meeting but should include:

   * Concrete recommendations to those currently implementing or planning to implement systems. What should they definitely do to ensure interoperability moving forward?
   * What tools and expertise are available to help TDWG?
   * Precise recommendations for testing of potential new technologies. What do we need to know to make further recommendations regarding the way things should be implemented?
   * General recommendations for future research. What areas are there that may harbour threats or opportunities and would therefore benefit from academic research?

----
%SEARCH{"%TOPIC%" excludetopic="%TOPIC%" header="*Linking Topics*" format="   * $topic" nosearch="on" nototal="on" }%