head	1.13;
access;
symbols;
locks; strict;
comment	@# @;


1.13
date	2006.04.13.07.16.48;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.12;

1.12
date	2006.04.12.07.59.30;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.11;

1.11
date	2006.04.11.08.52.41;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.10;

1.10
date	2006.04.10.08.20.40;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.9;

1.9
date	2006.04.05.09.15.49;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.8;

1.8
date	2006.04.04.13.39.08;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.7;

1.7
date	2006.04.03.12.44.07;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.6;

1.6
date	2006.04.03.11.05.43;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.5;

1.5
date	2006.03.30.09.07.05;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.4;

1.4
date	2006.03.27.20.17.05;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.3;

1.3
date	2006.03.24.14.17.20;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.2;

1.2
date	2006.03.23.12.53.09;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.1;

1.1
date	2006.03.17.10.49.01;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	;


desc
@none
@


1.13
log
@none
@
text
@%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1144912608" format="1.1" version="1.13"}%
%META:TOPICPARENT{name="TagMeeting1"}%
---+ <nop>%TOPIC%

---++ House Keeping
We will start each day at 09:00 and run through till 17:30. Coffee/Tea is laid on for 10:45 and 15:30. Lunch will be provided between 13:00 and 14:00.

There are many local restraunts for eating out in the evening. We could, perhaps, all dine together on the 12th - but we can arrange that on the day.

If you have not received details of your hotel accommodation or need any further information about visiting Edinburgh please let me or the team at eSI know.

There will be wireless internet access within eSI.

---++ Tuesday 11th April

---+++ Session 1: Clean Slate
Chair: Roger Hyam

This session discusses the requirements and implementation of a global biodiversity information network from scratch. Taking into account our current experience but ignoring the existence of any 'legacy' resources. The intention is to work through a full software design cycle and define an 'ideal' solution model at a high level before lunch! The idea is to have a common 'vision thing' that we can hang the rest of the workshop off it is not intended to come up with a plan to throw away what we currently have.
   * Identification of Actors (nodes and arcs within the network?).
   * Identification of high level use cases.
   * Roles of actors in use cases.
   * An analysis model

   * Coffee Break

   * Design Goals - what needs be optimized / where are the resource restrictions.
   * Subsystems - what occurs at what node? Do subsystems == nodes?
   * Idealized System Model.

TagMeeting1Session1Minutes

---+++ Lunch

---+++ Session 2: Review of Current Technologies and 'Markets'
Chair: Greg

Attendees will present *brief* overviews of the current technologies. Discussion will suggest how they relate to the framework discussed in the morning. Each talk will follow a simple template that is devised prior to the meeting. The template is outlined at the bottom of the page.

   * ABCD / BioCASE = Markus
   * Tapir = Renato
   * Darwin Core / DiGIR = Dave
   * DiGIR2 = Steve

   * Tea

   * SDD = Gregor
   * OGC technologies = Javier
   * ALTER-Net = Kathi/Herbert
   * SEEK = Jessie/Dave/Rob

   * Agree agenda for Sessions 3 and 4.

TagMeeting1Session2Minutes

---++ Wednesday 12th April
The content of this day will be influenced by what has come out of the first day so it is difficult to put a precise agenda together ahead of time. Below is a first stab by RogerHyam (with inherent bias). 

---+++ Session 3: A Common Ontology?
Chair: 

It is difficult to envisage integrating disparate projects and technologies without some form of shared vocabulary or ontology.

*This is a very provisional agenda and will be re-worked (possibly completely changed) at the end of session 1*

   * Referencing ontologies/vocabularies/schemas - what namespace conventions should we use?
   * 'Languages' for representation of ontologies/vocabularies. Aside from how we develop an ontology how do we 'publish' it. How will agents (machine and human) find and exploit it once we have created it. If it is to be used (which is the only point of developing it) then we must discuss this first or we will end up creating a product that can't be brought to market. Practically this may be answering the question "What do you get when a URI to a Class or Property is resolved?"
   * Complexity of Ontologies/Vocabularies. How do we decide what is in scope and what is out of scope of our ontology? Can we have a simple set of rules as to what is in the core, what is in a TDWG ontology (but not the core) and what is definitely outside the scope of TDWG.
      * Classes and Properties - can we partition by class and property. i.e. Classes for different domains are maintained by domain interest groups.
      * Relationships - can we partition by granularity of relationship. i.e. Core maintains main classes but sub ontologies assert relationships between them.
   * Technologies for development of Ontologies/Vocabularies. Once we have defined an interface for exposing the ontology to the outside world what technology do we use to build it internally? Do all parties need to use the same technologies? 

TagMeeting1Session3Minutes


---+++ Lunch

---+++ Session 4: Integration of Existing Technologies with a Core Ontology.
Chair: 

*This is a very provisional agenda and will be re-worked (possibly completely changed) at the end of session 1*

How can we integrate what we have already with any common system?

   * Mapping existing schemas. What can we do without changing anything in the existing schemas.
   * Adapting existing schemas. What can be done with minimal change to current schemas and working practices. Tagging perhaps?
   * Future schemas. What advice do we give to people developing the next versions of the existing schemas and completely novel schemas.
   * Tapir protocol response formats and querying. How can we relate this to a core ontology?
   * SPARQL?

Minutes are continued on the TagMeeting1Session3Minutes page.
 
---++ Thursday 13th April

---+++ Session 5: Planning/Prioritisation
Chair: Jessie

   * Regret Analysis. - Roger to explain.
   * Quality/Resources/Time/Scope - Roger to explain.
   * What would we like Jessie's group focus on over the summer?
   * What can we ask other TIP funded projects to do?

---+++ Lunch:

---+++ Session 6: Report Writing

Chair: John
Customer: Roger Hyam (I am responsible for delivering the report so I will act like a customer for this session!)

The meeting must produce a report. This report must distill what we have discussed and come to clear conclusions and recommendations. This final session will be used to write an agreed list of statements and re-cap the work of the last few days.

TagMeeting1ReportDraft


---++ Talks Template

We all have some familiarity with the technologies being presented so we don't need detailed technical talks but what we do need to do is have an overview of how they fit into the broader scheme of things. The whole talk should last a maximum of 15 minutes.

   1 *Motivation & Rationale* Very brief introduction to motivations i.e. what it was intended to do and why it takes the form it does.
   1 *Publishing: Software Implementations.* The software available (or planned) to publish data in this format.
   1 *Publishing: Deployments.*  Who is using (or about to use) these implementations to publish data. What is the demographic?
   1 *Consuming: Software Implementations.* The software available (or planned) to consume data in this format.
   1 *Consuming: Deployments.*  Who is using (or about to use) these implementations to consume data. What is the demographic?
   1 *Market Size: Potential Publishers* Who could be producing data like this.
   1 *Market Size: Potential Customers* Who could be consuming data like this.
   1 *Success Factors*: Significant factors for successful adoption. Why has it been successful? What do you think will make it successful? From an adopters point of view.
   1 *Hurdles to Adoption* Significant hurdles to adoption. What have been the major hurdles to adoption? Or what are perceived as the major hurdles?
   1 *Big Picture* Where does the technology fit in the model discussed in the morning session (this obviously can't be prepared ahead of time so a blank slide is fine). Points raised in discussion on this will form the detailed agenda for day 2.



----
%SEARCH{"%TOPIC%" excludetopic="%TOPIC%" header="*Linking Topics*" format="   * $topic" nosearch="on" nototal="on" }%@


1.12
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1144828770" format="1.1" version="1.12"}%
d91 2
d112 2
@


1.11
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1144745561" format="1.1" version="1.11"}%
d73 1
@


1.10
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1144657240" format="1.1" version="1.10"}%
d31 2
@


1.9
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1144228549" format="1.1" version="1.9"}%
d52 2
@


1.8
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1144157948" format="1.1" version="1.8"}%
d19 1
a19 1
This session discusses the requirements and implementation of a global biodiversity information network from scratch. Taking into account our current experience but ignoring the existence of any 'legacy' resources. The intention is to work through a full software design cycle and define an 'ideal' solution model at a high level before lunch! The idea is to have a common 'vision thing' that we can hang the rest of the workshop off.
d53 1
a53 1
The content of this day will be influenced by what has come out of the first day so it is difficult to put a precise agenda together ahead of time. Below is a first stab by RogerHyam (with inherent bias)
d60 2
d76 2
d124 1
a124 1
%SEARCH{"%TOPIC%" excludetopic="%TOPIC%" header="*Linking Topics*" format="   * $topic" nosearch="on" nototal="on" }%
@


1.7
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1144068247" format="1.1" version="1.7"}%
d5 2
d8 5
d67 2
d120 1
a120 1
%SEARCH{"%TOPIC%" excludetopic="%TOPIC%" header="*Linking Topics*" format="   * $topic" nosearch="on" nototal="on" }%@


1.6
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1144062343" format="1.1" version="1.6"}%
d27 1
a27 1
Chair: ??
@


1.5
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1143709625" format="1.1" version="1.5"}%
d43 2
d46 1
a46 1
The content of this day will be influenced by what has come out of the first day so it is difficult to put a precise agenda together ahead of time.
d53 7
d67 5
@


1.4
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1143490625" format="1.1" version="1.4"}%
d34 1
a34 1
   * DiGIR2 = Steve?
d38 1
a38 1
   * SDD = Gregor?
d40 2
a41 2
   * ALTER-Net = Kathi/Herbert?
   * SEEK = Jessie?
d47 1
a47 1
Chair: ??
d54 1
a54 1
Chair: ??
d62 1
a62 1
Chair: ??
d97 1
a97 1
%SEARCH{"%TOPIC%" excludetopic="%TOPIC%" header="*Linking Topics*" format="   * $topic" nosearch="on" nototal="on" }%
@


1.3
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1143209840" format="1.1" version="1.3"}%
d31 1
a31 1
   * ABCD / BioCASE = Markus?
d33 1
a33 1
   * Darwin Core / DiGIR = John?
d73 1
a73 1
Chair: ??
@


1.2
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1143118389" format="1.1" version="1.2"}%
d31 4
a34 4
   * ABCD / BioCASE
   * Tapir
   * Darwin Core / DiGIR
   * DiGIR2
d38 4
a41 4
   * SDD
   * OGC technologies
   * ALTER-Net
   * SEEK
@


1.1
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1142592541" format="1.1" version="1.1"}%
d29 1
a29 1
Attendees will present *brief* overviews of the current technologies. Discussion will suggest how they relate to the framework discussed in the morning. Each talk will follow a simple template that is devised prior to the meeting.
d35 3
a41 1
   * Others not represented.
d79 14
@
