head	1.13;
access;
symbols;
locks; strict;
comment	@# @;


1.13
date	2007.09.16.15.11.27;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.12;

1.12
date	2007.09.16.13.55.14;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.11;

1.11
date	2007.09.16.12.27.09;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.10;

1.10
date	2007.09.11.11.28.01;	author GregorHagedorn;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.9;

1.9
date	2007.09.11.09.29.04;	author KathiSchleidt;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.8;

1.8
date	2007.09.03.16.05.23;	author BobMorris;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.7;

1.7
date	2007.09.03.10.54.30;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.6;

1.6
date	2007.08.20.13.45.01;	author SallyHinchcliffe;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.5;

1.5
date	2007.08.09.23.36.11;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.4;

1.4
date	2007.08.09.23.34.43;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.3;

1.3
date	2007.08.09.21.34.10;	author KevinRichards;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.2;

1.2
date	2007.08.09.18.48.45;	author RicardoPereira;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.1;

1.1
date	2007.08.09.10.18.27;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	;


desc
@none
@


1.13
log
@none
@
text
@%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1189955487" format="1.1" version="1.13"}%
%META:TOPICPARENT{name="TagMeeting1"}%
---+ <nop>%TOPIC%

Sunday 16th September 14:00 - 17:00 Bratislava - Immediately prior to the [[http://www.tdwg.org/conference2007/programme/schedule/][TDWG 2007 meeting]].

*Meeting is now in progress*

---++ Minutes

   * ILTER - 'issues'
        * TDWG is coordinating with different groups with similar problems
        * ILTER brings ecological data in general
        * *Strength* - bring new knowledge and skills and resources
        * *Strength* - more buy in
        * *Risk* - wider base for consensus could slow us down
        * ALTER-Net - is all semantic
        * Kathi is point of contact

   * Architecture
        * Ontologies
              * What do we return for an object. Concise Bounding Object.
              * Normative 
              * Higher level ontologies - one or more
        * GUIDs
             * LSID - clear up usage and metadata 
             * URI - for ontology e
             * Need clear explanation of httprange-14
        * Protocols

    * Embedding an object that you don't own
        * e.g. TaxonConcept contains TaxonName. Want to link to IPNI but want give our own data for the TaxonName object. Three options
              1) Reuse IPNI LSID for embedded name == bad. Consumer may think we are authoritative for that GUID. Retrieving it gives different data....
              2) Issue own LSID for embedded object and include owl:sameAs to IPNI. 
              3) Anonymous object but with owl:sameAs to IPNI. Can't be cited. 
        * Choice between 2 and 3 is up to provider. Does he want to be refered to?

    * owl:sameAs may not be correct assertion.
        * Probably not used correctly.

    * Data Standards (Priority for 2008)
       * Registry of LSID authorities
       * What are LSIDs Authoritative for?
       * Needs means of disagreement.
       * Definition of requirements

    * Colaboration - developing ontologies (opening it out) -Priority for 2008
        * We need help from Protege people (focussed training)
    * Upper Ontologies and Vocabularies

------

   * Resources - what do we need to implement current architecture of LSID/Ontology/TAPIR approach and prevent it from withering on the vine?
   * Strategy to assist groups moving from an XML-centric to RDF-centric world? (LB)
   * 'Missing Areas' - things that haven't been addressed
      * Descriptive Data 
      * Phylogenies
      * Integration with 'others' Genbank, Barcode of Life etc 
   * (next) Ontology/Vocabulary development environment - widening input, obtaining sufficient review and discussion?
   * (done) Usage guidelines for the ontologies/RDF ?  When to embed, when to link by Id, etc?  
   * Priorities for 2008
   * Convener in 2008
   * Any Other Business
       * User base - survey/requirements
   * Date/location of next meeting.

---++ Attendees
   * Roger Hyam
   * Ricardo Pereira
   * Kevin Richards
   * Sally Hinchcliffe (maybe)
   * Nicky Nicolson (maybe)
   * Bob Morris
   * Kathi Schleidt
   * Herbert Schentz
   * Gregor Hagedorn

---++ Location
These are the location details provided by the local organizers. 
   * [[http://www.tdwg.org/fileadmin/2007meeting/travel/TDWG2007_ToFaculty.jpg][Location Map]]
   * from Suza hotel:
      * follow green line on map
      * "downhill" along Korabinskeho street (steeply down among gardens), cross bridge over highway and turn to left, then follow indicators of the conference along Ilkovicova street (there are many new houses compared to Google Earth or Google Maps); total distance about 1.5 km
      * or you can use trolleybus (lines 203 or 207) and tram (line no. 1, 5 or 9 towards Karlova Ves)
      * leave tram at 4th stop after tunnel (stop Botanical Garden)
      * walk uphill to faculty (follow indicators) 
   * from Ibis hotel
      * use tram line no. 1, 5 or 9 towards Karlova Ves
      * leave tram at 4th stop after tunnel (stop Botanical Garden)
      * walk uphill to faculty (follow indicators) 
   * from Hotel no 16 - walk to faculty or to the closest tram or trolleybus stop
   * For people staying at the SUZA or Hotel No. 16 I think walking would be best, although it's a bit of a trek from the latter.

----
%SEARCH{"%TOPIC%" excludetopic="%TOPIC%" header="*Linking Topics*" format="   * $topic" nosearch="on" nototal="on" }%@


1.12
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1189950914" format="1.1" reprev="1.12" version="1.12"}%
d47 2
a48 2
    * Colaboration - developing ontologies (opening it out)

d64 1
d95 1
a95 1
%SEARCH{"%TOPIC%" excludetopic="%TOPIC%" header="*Linking Topics*" format="   * $topic" nosearch="on" nototal="on" }%
@


1.11
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1189945629" format="1.1" reprev="1.11" version="1.11"}%
d20 26
d47 5
d59 2
a60 2
   * Ontology/Vocabulary development environment - widening input, obtaining sufficient review and discussion?
   * Usage guidelines for the ontologies/RDF ?  When to embed, when to link by Id, etc?  
@


1.10
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="GregorHagedorn" date="1189510081" format="1.1" version="1.10"}%
d7 14
a20 1
*This page is waiting for your contribution.*
a21 1
---++ Agenda
d32 1
a32 1
   * AOB -- ## what is this; please spell out, thanks! (Gregor)
d63 1
a63 1
%SEARCH{"%TOPIC%" excludetopic="%TOPIC%" header="*Linking Topics*" format="   * $topic" nosearch="on" nototal="on" }%@


1.9
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="KathiSchleidt" date="1189502944" format="1.1" version="1.9"}%
a4 1

d16 1
a16 1
   * Ontology/Vocabulary development environment - widening input?
d20 1
a20 1
   * AOB
d32 1
a49 2


@


1.8
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="BobMorris" date="1188835523" format="1.1" version="1.8"}%
d31 2
@


1.7
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1188816870" format="1.1" reprev="1.7" version="1.7"}%
d30 1
d51 1
a51 1
%SEARCH{"%TOPIC%" excludetopic="%TOPIC%" header="*Linking Topics*" format="   * $topic" nosearch="on" nototal="on" }%
@


1.6
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="SallyHinchcliffe" date="1187617501" format="1.1" version="1.6"}%
d31 18
d50 1
a50 1
%SEARCH{"%TOPIC%" excludetopic="%TOPIC%" header="*Linking Topics*" format="   * $topic" nosearch="on" nototal="on" }%@


1.5
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="LeeBelbin" date="1186702571" format="1.1" version="1.5"}%
d28 2
@


1.4
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="LeeBelbin" date="1186702483" format="1.1" version="1.4"}%
d12 1
a17 1
   * Strategy to assist groups moving from an XML-centric to RDF-centric world?
@


1.3
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="KevinRichards" date="1186695250" format="1.1" version="1.3"}%
d17 2
a18 1
   * Usage guidelines for the ontoloogies/RDF ?  When to embed, when to link by Id, etc?  
@


1.2
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RicardoPereira" date="1186685325" format="1.1" version="1.2"}%
d17 1
d26 1
@


1.1
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1186654707" format="1.1" reprev="1.1" version="1.1"}%
d24 1
a24 1

d27 1
a27 1
%SEARCH{"%TOPIC%" excludetopic="%TOPIC%" header="*Linking Topics*" format="   * $topic" nosearch="on" nototal="on" }%
@
