head	1.37;
access;
symbols;
locks; strict;
comment	@# @;


1.37
date	2010.10.26.06.25.29;	author StanleyBlum;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.36;

1.36
date	2009.08.09.23.08.06;	author LeeBelbin;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.35;

1.35
date	2008.10.25.15.21.12;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.34;

1.34
date	2008.08.05.08.40.45;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.33;

1.33
date	2007.12.13.09.52.47;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.32;

1.32
date	2007.11.05.11.04.21;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.31;

1.31
date	2007.11.02.11.42.11;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.30;

1.30
date	2007.09.28.14.05.24;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.29;

1.29
date	2007.04.23.15.41.52;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.28;

1.28
date	2007.04.13.12.09.15;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.27;

1.27
date	2007.04.13.10.21.53;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.26;

1.26
date	2007.03.15.11.12.09;	author RicardoPereira;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.25;

1.25
date	2007.03.05.12.34.58;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.24;

1.24
date	2007.03.02.15.02.10;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.23;

1.23
date	2007.03.02.13.54.20;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.22;

1.22
date	2007.01.25.17.27.21;	author RicardoPereira;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.21;

1.21
date	2006.12.11.21.13.00;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.20;

1.20
date	2006.09.26.15.56.02;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.19;

1.19
date	2006.04.14.09.00.54;	author JessieKennedy;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.18;

1.18
date	2006.02.23.14.51.24;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.17;

1.17
date	2006.02.07.15.07.13;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.16;

1.16
date	2006.01.19.18.22.14;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.15;

1.15
date	2005.10.28.10.45.07;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.14;

1.14
date	2005.10.28.10.17.05;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.13;

1.13
date	2005.10.28.10.15.28;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.12;

1.12
date	2005.10.28.10.13.16;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.11;

1.11
date	2005.10.28.10.10.54;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.10;

1.10
date	2005.10.25.11.59.26;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.9;

1.9
date	2005.10.24.20.16.03;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.8;

1.8
date	2005.10.24.14.41.31;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.7;

1.7
date	2005.10.24.13.08.11;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.6;

1.6
date	2005.10.11.15.11.46;	author RogerHyam;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.5;

1.5
date	2005.09.30.10.32.31;	author crawford;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.4;

1.4
date	2002.04.14.06.48.51;	author PeterThoeny;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.3;

1.3
date	2002.04.07.10.31.00;	author PeterThoeny;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.2;

1.2
date	2001.11.24.11.40.23;	author PeterThoeny;	state Exp;
branches;
next	1.1;

1.1
date	2001.08.08.05.20.01;	author PeterThoeny;	state Exp;
branches;
next	;


desc
@none
@


1.37
log
@none
@
text
@%META:TOPICINFO{author="StanleyBlum" date="1288074328" format="1.1" version="1.37"}%
---+!! Welcome to the Technical Architecture Subgroup Wiki

This wiki is for the development of:

	* An overall architecture for TDWG standards.
	* A migration route from the current and proposed standards to the new architecture.
	* A role for Technical Architecture Group within the TDWG standards development process.

We have just completed the RoadMap2008 document for 2008. This is the main document for the year.

Coming out of the TDWG 2008 meeting we have a SpeciesPages page.

---++ The Standards Architecture
<img src="%ATTACHURLPATH%/blocks_01_small.png" alt="blocks_01_small.png" width="800"/>

This is a summary (in a single diagram) of the standards architecture as it is evolving. There is an illustrated talk on the reasoning behind this diagram on the ArchTalk page.

A high level view of the architecture is as a three legged stool. The seat of the stool represents integrated data and is supported by the three pillars of Globally Unique Identifiers, exchange protocols and an ontology. To try and give this rambling wiki structure there are three pages representing the three legs of the stool; TagArchGuids, TagArchProtocols and TagArchOntology.

At the [[TagMeeting1][TAG-1 meeting]] it was agreed that a core ontology should be developed by members of the current subgroups for proposal to the TDWG community and to act as a platform for developing prototypes to test future technologies and developments. Details regarding the development can be found on the [[TDWG Ontology]] page.

The LSID Vocabularies are under active development and are discussed under LsidVocs. Once things are identified with LSIDs people will want to tag their data with those ids this is the subject of LsidLookUp.

A frequently asked question is "What is an ontology?" or "What is the TDWG ontology?"  - so there is a WhatIsTheOntology page!

Matters connected to TAPIR are dealt with under the TAPIR.WebHome subgroup. The TAPIR subgroup may soon become a task group under the umbrella of the TAG.

Not shown on the diagram but integral to its implementation are Globally Unique Identifiers which also have their own subgroup GUID.WebHome. This group may also evolve into a TAG task group in the future.

---++ Quality Assurance

The TAG has a role in ensuring the quality of TDWG products. The management of quality is a well established discipline in the software engineering community. The QualityAssurance page is a focus for efforts at introducing best practice into our processes.

---++ Other Stuff of Interest
   * SpeciesMicroformat is currently being developed outside of TDWG but there is a page on this wiki to discuss relationships to the TDWG standards and how we might integrate.
   * e-Biosphere OntologyRoadmap
   * HistoricalDocuments on conceptual modeling in biodiversity informatics.  (e.g., the "ASC Model")


---++ Editor
I (Main.RogerHyam) am charged with leading the development of the architecture and so will try and keep this wiki as organised as possible. If it you think it could be improved please let me know.

    

%META:FILEATTACHMENT{name="TDWG_Charter_TAG_05.pdf" attr="" autoattached="1" comment="Proposed Charter - PDF" date="1165870784" path="TDWG_Charter_TAG_05.pdf" size="50192" user="Main.RogerHyam" version="1"}%
%META:FILEATTACHMENT{name="TDWG_Charter_TAG_05.doc" attr="" autoattached="1" comment="Proposed Charter - DOC" date="1165870816" path="TDWG_Charter_TAG_05.doc" size="131072" user="Main.RogerHyam" version="1"}%
%META:FILEATTACHMENT{name="blocks_01_small.png" attachment="blocks_01_small.png" attr="" comment="Architecture in a Single Diagram" date="1173098096" path="blocks_inverted_01_small.png" size="159394" stream="blocks_inverted_01_small.png" user="Main.RogerHyam" version="6"}%
@


1.36
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="LeeBelbin" date="1249859286" format="1.1" reprev="1.36" version="1.36"}%
d38 1
@


1.35
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1224948072" format="1.1" version="1.35"}%
d37 1
@


1.34
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1217925645" format="1.1" version="1.34"}%
d10 3
a12 1
We are currently working on the RoadMap2008.
@


1.33
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1197539567" format="1.1" version="1.33"}%
d10 2
@


1.32
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1194260661" format="1.1" version="1.32"}%
d31 3
@


1.31
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1194003731" format="1.1" reprev="1.31" version="1.31"}%
d27 1
a27 1
---++ Proposed New Charter
d29 1
a29 1
A new process for managing TDWG subgroups and standards was accepted at the St Louis meeting in October. This new process defines Interest Groups which are persistent entities that spawn Task Groups which are ephemeral. You can read about this in more detail on the [[Process.WebHome][Process Wiki]]. Previous subgroups now need to propose new charters following a new format if they wish to be constituted as Interest Groups under the new system.
a30 6
I (Main.RogerHyam) have drafted a charter for the TAG Interest Group in cooperation with Renato De Giovanni and submitted it to the Executive Committee.

   * [[%ATTACHURL%/TDWG_Charter_TAG_05.pdf][TDWG_Charter_TAG_05.pdf]]: Proposed Charter - PDF
   * [[%ATTACHURL%/TDWG_Charter_TAG_05.doc][TDWG_Charter_TAG_05.doc]]: Proposed Charter - DOC

I don't believe there is anything controversial in here but you may think otherwise. If so please place you comments on NewCharterComments or mail me an edited version of the word document.
@


1.30
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1190988324" format="1.1" version="1.30"}%
d15 1
a15 1
A high level view of the architecture is as a three legged stool. The seat of the stool represents integrated data and is supported by the three pillars of Globally Unique Identifiers, exchange protocols and an ontology. To try and give this rambling wiki structure there are three pages representing the three legs of the stool; StoolGuids, StoolProtocols and StoolOntology.
@


1.29
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1177342912" format="1.1" version="1.29"}%
d15 2
@


1.28
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1176466155" format="1.1" version="1.28"}%
d13 1
a13 1
This is a summary (in a single diagram) of the standards architecture as it is evolving.
@


1.27
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1176459713" format="1.1" version="1.27"}%
d17 1
a17 1
The LSID Vocabularies are under active development and are discussed under LsidVocs.
@


1.26
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RicardoPereira" date="1173957129" format="1.1" version="1.26"}%
d19 2
@


1.25
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1173098098" format="1.1" reprev="1.25" version="1.25"}%
d15 1
a15 1
At the [[TagMeeting1][TAG-1 meeting]] it was agreed that a core ontology should be developed by members of the current subgroups for proposal to theTDWG community and to act as a platform for developing prototypes to test future technologies and developments. Details regarding the development can be found on the [[TDWG Ontology]] page.
@


1.24
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1172847730" format="1.1" version="1.24"}%
d41 1
a41 1
%META:FILEATTACHMENT{name="blocks_01_small.png" attachment="blocks_01_small.png" attr="" comment="Architecture in a Single Diagram" date="1172841835" path="blocks_01_small.png" size="138417" stream="blocks_01_small.png" user="Main.RogerHyam" version="4"}%
@


1.23
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1172843660" format="1.1" reprev="1.23" version="1.23"}%
d7 1
a7 1
	* A migration route from the current Standards and Proposed standards to the new architecture.
@


1.22
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RicardoPereira" date="1169746041" format="1.1" version="1.22"}%
d10 2
a11 1
---++ Proposed New Charter
d13 1
a13 1
A new process for managing TDWG subgroups and standards was accepted at the St Louis meeting in October. This new process defines Interest Groups which are persistent entities that spawn Task Groups which are ephemeral. You can read about this in more detail on the [[Process.WebHome][Process Wiki]]. Previous subgroups now need to propose new charters following a new format if they wish to be constituted as Interest Groups under the new system. I (Main.RogerHyam) have drafted a charter for the TAG Interest Group and would welcome any comments before submitting this to the Executive Committee.
d15 1
a15 2
   * [[%ATTACHURL%/TDWG_Charter_TAG_05.pdf][TDWG_Charter_TAG_05.pdf]]: Proposed Charter - PDF
   * [[%ATTACHURL%/TDWG_Charter_TAG_05.doc][TDWG_Charter_TAG_05.doc]]: Proposed Charter - DOC
d17 1
a17 1
I don't believe there is anything controversial in here but you may thing otherwise. Is so please place you comments on NewCharterComments or mail me and edited version of the word document.
d19 1
a19 2
---++ TAG-1 Meeting 2006
A meeting to discuss the way forward with the TDWG technical architecture occurred in early 2006 read more about it on the TagMeeting1 page.
d21 1
a21 2
---++ Ontology Development
At the TAG-1 meeting it was agreed that a core ontology should be developed by members of the current subgroups for proposal to theTDWG community and to act as a platform for developing prototypes to test future technoloigies and developments. Details regarding the development can be found on the [[TDWG Ontology]] page.
d23 1
a23 1
EstablishingLsidVocabularies is a discussion about kickstarting the LSID vocabularies whilst integrating them with the going TDWG ontology
d25 1
d27 6
a32 1
%INCLUDE{MainSections}%
d35 1
a35 4
I (Main.RogerHyam) am charged with leading the development of the architecture and so will try and keep this wiki as organised as possible. If it you think it could be improved please let me know. I hope to use the system to develop some documents that are real deliverables with real deadlines and so will lock down certain topics when they are nearing completion but I will always make sure there is room for continued discussion.

---++ Contributing
You are welcome to [[TWiki.TWikiRegistration][register]] and contribute to our discussions and documents. If you do register please create a page for yourself that describes who you are and your interests in TDWG standards. Please read HowToContribute for advice on constructive contributions.
d37 1
d41 1
@


1.21
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1165871580" format="1.1" version="1.21"}%
d14 2
a15 2
 * [[%ATTACHURL%/TDWG_Charter_TAG_05.pdf][TDWG_Charter_TAG_05.pdf]]: Proposed Charter - PDF
 * [[%ATTACHURL%/TDWG_Charter_TAG_05.doc][TDWG_Charter_TAG_05.doc]]: Proposed Charter - DOC
@


1.20
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1159286162" format="1.1" version="1.20"}%
a8 3
This wiki serves other purposes:
   * Test the suitability of [[TWiki.WebHome][TWiki]] as a technology for hosting all TDWG wikis.
   * Test the suitability of wikis and [[TWiki.WebHome][TWiki]] in particual as a tool for colaboratively developing TDWG technical documents.
d10 1
a10 1
If you are new to the site you could read the ArchitectureOverview for a summary of the current thinking though this is developing as the ideas do.
d12 6
a17 1
If you are following the discussions in the TAG email group and meetings you may like to review the TagDiscussionRoadMap.
d20 1
a20 1
A meeting to discuss the way forward with the TDWG technical architecture is planned for early 2006 read more about it on the TagMeeting1 page.
d35 4
@


1.19
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="JessieKennedy" date="1145005254" format="1.1" version="1.19"}%
d23 2
@


1.18
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1140706284" format="1.1" version="1.18"}%
d20 4
@


1.17
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1139324832" format="1.1" version="1.17"}%
d13 3
a15 1
If you are new to the site please read ArchitectureOverview for a summary of the current thinking.
@


1.16
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1137694934" format="1.1" version="1.16"}%
d15 3
@


1.15
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1130496307" format="1.1" version="1.15"}%
d13 2
@


1.14
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1130494625" format="1.1" version="1.14"}%
@


1.13
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1130494528" format="1.1" version="1.13"}%
a19 3


A note to trigger a notification.@


1.12
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1130494396" format="1.1" version="1.12"}%
d21 2
@


1.11
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1130494254" format="1.1" version="1.11"}%
@


1.10
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1130241566" format="1.1" version="1.10"}%
a20 2

(FixMe: just testing)
@


1.9
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1130184963" format="1.1" version="1.9"}%
d7 1
a7 1
	* An migration route from the current Standards and Proposed standards to the new architecture.
a12 1
Main starting points within the wiki:
d15 1
d18 2
a19 1
You are welcome to [[TWiki.TWikiRegistration][register]] and contribute to our discussions and documents. If you do register please create a page for yourself that describes who you are and your interests in TDWG standards. 
d22 1
@


1.8
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1130164891" format="1.1" version="1.8"}%
a11 4
The main starting points are:
   * DesignEthos:  %SEARCH{"" web="TAG" scope="text"}%
   * RequirementsElicitation: 

d13 2
@


1.7
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1130159291" format="1.1" version="1.7"}%
d9 1
a9 1
This wiki serves two other purposes:
d12 10
a21 1
You are welcome to register and contribute to our discussions and developing documents. If you do register please create a page for yourself that describes who you are and your interests in TDWG standards. 
@


1.6
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="RogerHyam" date="1129043506" format="1.1" version="1.6"}%
d4 9
a12 14
---++ %MAKETEXT{"Available Information"}%
	* TagEthos
	* ...
	* ...
 
<blockquote>
<form action="%SCRIPTURLPATH%/search%SCRIPTSUFFIX%/%INTURLENCODE{"%WEB%"}%/">
<input type="text" name="search" size="22" />
<input type="submit" value='MAKETEXT{"Search"}%' />
<br/>
([[WebSearchAdvanced][Search]])
</form>	
</blockquote>
<!-- Do _not_ attempt to edit this topic; it is auto-generated. Please add comments/questions/remarks to the Dev topic instead. -->
@


1.5
log
@buildrelease
@
text
@d1 2
a2 2
%META:TOPICINFO{author="TWikiContributor" date="1112002813" format="1.0" version="5"}%
---+!! MAKETEXT{"Welcome to the [_1] web" args="<nop>%WEB%"}%
d5 1
a5 1
	* ...
d14 1
a14 1
([[WebSearchAdvanced][%MAKETEXT{"advanced search"}%]])
d18 1
@


1.4
log
@none
@
text
@d1 17
a17 14
%META:TOPICINFO{author="PeterThoeny" date="1018766931" format="1.0" version="1.4"}%
Welcome to the home of <b>%WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB%</b>. This is a web-based collaboration area for ...

	* MeetingMinutes
	* 

---++ Site Tools of the %WEB% Web

%INCLUDE{"%TWIKIWEB%.WebSiteTools"}%

*Notes:*
%INCLUDE{"%TWIKIWEB%.YouAreHere"}%

%INCLUDE{"%TWIKIWEB%.SiteMap"}%
@


1.3
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="PeterThoeny" date="1018175460" format="1.0" version="1.3"}%
d7 3
a9 9
---++ Maintenance of the %WEB% web
<form action="%SCRIPTURLPATH%/search%SCRIPTSUFFIX%/%WEB%/SearchResult">
	* <input type="text" name="search" size="32" /> <input type="submit" value="Search" /> &nbsp;&nbsp; (More options in WebSearch)
	* WebChanges: Find out recent modifications to the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% web.
	* WebIndex: Display all %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% topics in alphabetical order. See also the faster WebTopicList 
	* %NOTIFYTOPIC%: Subscribe to be automatically notified when something changes in the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% web.
	* %STATISTICSTOPIC%: View access statistics of the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% web.
	* %WEBPREFSTOPIC%: Preferences of the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% web.
</form>
d12 1
a12 2
	* You are currently in the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% web. The color code for this web is a (SPECIFY COLOR) background, so you know where you are.
	* If you are not familiar with the %WIKITOOLNAME% collaboration tool, please visit %TWIKIWEB%.WelcomeGuest in the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%TWIKIWEB% web first.
@


1.2
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="PeterThoeny" date="1006602023" format="1.0" version="1.2"}%
d21 1
a21 1
%INCLUDE{"%TWIKIWEB%.TWikiWebsTable"}%
@


1.1
log
@none
@
text
@d1 1
a1 1
%META:TOPICINFO{author="PeterThoeny" date="997248001" format="1.0beta2" version="1.1"}%
d11 1
a11 1
	* WebIndex: Display all %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% topics in alphabetical order.
@
