%META:TOPICINFO{author="LeeBelbin" date="1269297220" format="1.1" version="1.16"}%
%META:TOPICPARENT{name="WebHome"}%
---++TDWG 2009 Programme Committee Discussion Area


The TDWG 2009 Programme Committee members are-

   * Annie Simpson 
   * Patricia Mergen
   * Joel Sachs 
   * Elizabeth Arnaud 
   * Adrian Rissone 
   * Charles Kahindo 
   * Helmut Knuepffer

---+++Programme
   * TDWG2009Program

---++Starting Point
This is a copy of the part of Donald's email post to members and friends that relates to the TDWG 2009 programme. This committee should, as far as possible, seek to follow the wishes of the TDWG Chair (as endorsed by the TDWG Executive Committee).

"In recent years TDWG conferences have moved away from their earlier format, with significant emphasis on working group meetings, to become more of a reporting conference on the activities of TDWG-related projects.  This has had some benefits, but has also in some ways weakened the organisation by reducing our focus on the core activity of developing and promoting standards.  The vitality of our working groups in large measure depends on the conference providing a focus for their activity.
 
For this reason, TDWG 2009 will be structured differently.  Monday and Friday of the conference have been reserved for plenary sessions, but for the rest of the conference we plan to run three parallel (and, I hope, intersecting) streams of activities.  One of these will be on the use of biodiversity informatics to support agriculture and crop diversity.  Another stream will be for TDWG to initiate activity in response to the roadmap developed at e-Biosphere 2009.  The third stream is still be be selected.  Each stream will include a range of activities (e.g. symposia, seminars, task group sessions, hackathons) planned to address key issues and to result in real deliverables to progress biodiversity informatics in the area.
 
We are establishing a Program Committee to plan the conference in detail and will keep you informed of progress."

---++Things To Do (please add/delete/modify)
   1. Clarify the three themes (eBiosphere outcomes, agricultural biodiversity informatics, ??). Suggestions from TDWG 2008 and subsequent emails to me are listed in the TDWG 2009 Ideas document below. Eamonn and Patricia were supporting the idea of biodiversity informatics in developing countries. Donald more recently feels that it would be good to try and weave in the issues raised by Annie (Lee: hence on the Programme Committee) of how TDWG addresses problems of new 'application groups' such as Invasive Species (see http://wiki.tdwg.org/twiki/bin/view/InvasiveSpecies/GisinRequirements).
   1. Identify the three 'Theme Leaders'. They will have autonomy to develop their programme and interact with each other and this committee to ensure effective coordination.
   1. Identify the titles and Sessions Chairs for each of the eight 1/4 day sessions on Monday November 9th and Friday November 13th.
   1. Determine if and how poster and computer demonstrations will be run and identify Editors for OJS for the abstracts.
   1. Contact group Conveners encouraging a) inputs to Theme Leaders, b) Session Chairs and c) Any requirements for group meetings. Aspects of this are somewhat of a catch-22 in that Conveners may request a session as in (2) above.
   1. Identify a 1-2 invited speakers
   1. Who will 'open' the conference? 

---++[[Sessions]]

---++Discussions

-- Main.PatriciaMergen - 04 Mar 2009

* Related to point 1. I feel more that the topic "biodiversity informatics in developing countries" is a cross themes initiative rather than suggest it as a seperated theme as such. Indeed agriculture, invasive species, education ... are very important issues in developping countries. So to avoid redundancies and that we can all collaborate in our domain on expertise; it may be more interesting and logical to make sure that representatives of developing countries are well represented in the speaker, posters and participants, by advertising TDWG to them and approach the funding agencies to support delegates from developing countries to attend. 

-- Main.AnnieSimpson - 18 Mar 2009

* Related to point 1. Each time I have attended TDWG (approx. 4 of the past 5 years) I have found there to be a lot of discussion about unique identifiers (LSIDs), but also a lack of clarity on what they are meant to do, how they can do it, and who will be responsible for the specifics of 'sorting them out.' I therefore suggest that unique identifiers would make a good theme for discussion and 'hackathon action' by members of almost all interest groups. Could there be a theme devoted to 1) working out the different aspects of LSIDs, 2) making sure we are all on the same page about all their details, and 3) assigning/volunteering for all the organizational responsibilities related to LSID implementation, control, and dissemination of information on how to use them? I am interested in others' ideas on this idea but will not be offended if you say 'LSIDs are all under control' -- this because I am not a developer myself but personally think of them as essential to information systems and yet a quicksand of semi-definitions.

---++Attached Files

 
   * [[%ATTACHURL%/TDWG_2009_Ideas.doc][TDWG_2009_Ideas.doc]]: A list of proposed themes submitted at or after TDWG 2008
   * [[%ATTACHURL%/TDWG2009_additional_ideas.doc][TDWG2009_additional_ideas.doc]]: Additional ideas from Elizabeth
   * [[%ATTACHURL%/TDWG_ConferenceGuidelines_v5.doc][TDWG_ConferenceGuidelines_v5.doc]]: Guidelines for all aspects of TDWG's annual conference

   * [[%ATTACHURL%/Traits_ForTDWG2009.doc][Traits_ForTDWG2009.doc]]: New suggestion: Functional Traits, vegetation observation in ecosystems& data integration through ontologies

%META:FILEATTACHMENT{name="TDWG_2009_Ideas.doc" attachment="TDWG_2009_Ideas.doc" attr="" comment="A list of proposed themes submitted at or after TDWG 2008" date="1236900033" path="TDWG 2009 Ideas.doc" size="93184" stream="TDWG 2009 Ideas.doc" user="Main.LeeBelbin" version="1"}%
%META:FILEATTACHMENT{name="TDWG2009_additional_ideas.doc" attachment="TDWG2009_additional_ideas.doc" attr="" comment="Additional ideas from Elizabeth" date="1236900084" path="TDWG2009_additional_ideas.doc" size="32768" stream="TDWG2009_additional_ideas.doc" user="Main.LeeBelbin" version="1"}%
%META:FILEATTACHMENT{name="TDWG_ConferenceGuidelines_v5.doc" attachment="TDWG_ConferenceGuidelines_v5.doc" attr="" comment="Guidelines for all aspects of TDWG's annual conference" date="1236900176" path="TDWG_ConferenceGuidelines_v5.doc" size="384000" stream="TDWG_ConferenceGuidelines_v5.doc" user="Main.LeeBelbin" version="1"}%
%META:FILEATTACHMENT{name="Traits_ForTDWG2009.doc" attachment="Traits_ForTDWG2009.doc" attr="" comment="New suggestion: Functional Traits, vegetation observation in ecosystems& data integration through ontologies" date="1240837694" path="C:\Documents and Settings\earnaud\My Documents\TDWG\organisation 2009\local PC\Traits_ForTDWG2009.doc" size="54784" stream="C:\Documents and Settings\earnaud\My Documents\TDWG\organisation 2009\local PC\Traits_ForTDWG2009.doc" user="Main.ElizabethArnaud" version="1"}%
%META:FILEATTACHMENT{name="candidaturemontpellier.pdf" attachment="candidaturemontpellier.pdf" attr="" comment="Le Corum- leaflet and map of the meeting rooms" date="1243199483" path="C:\Documents and Settings\earnaud\My Documents\TDWG\organisation 2009\candidaturemontpellier.pdf" size="6720321" stream="C:\Documents and Settings\earnaud\My Documents\TDWG\organisation 2009\candidaturemontpellier.pdf" user="Main.ElizabethArnaud" version="1"}%
